Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
But floate vpon a wilde and violent Sea
Or memorize another Golgotha,
Scaena Tertia.
Scaena Tertia.
Scena Tertia.
Scena Tertia.
Scena Tertia.
Actus Secundus. Scena Prima.
Actus Tertius. Scena Prima.
Actus Quintus. Scena Prima.
Actus Quartus. Scena Prima.
Actus Primus. Scoena Prima.
Scena Septima.
Scena Septima.
  Macb. Who's there? what hoa?
  Lady. Helpe me hence, hoa
   Banquo within. Giue vs a Light there, hoa
Scena Quinta.
Scena Quinta.
Scena Quinta.
Scaena Quarta.
Scena Quarta.
Scena Quarta.
Scena Quarta.
Scaena Sexta.
Scena Sexta.
Scena Sexta.
Make the Grewell thicke, and slab.
Ditch-deliuer'd by a Drab,
Tell thee, Macduffe was from his Mothers womb
Sing within. Come away, come away, &c.
Musicke and a Song. Blacke Spirits, &c.
Fleans is scap'd
Such I account thy loue. Art thou affear'd
Can'st thou not Minister to a minde diseas'd,
   Mac. Being vnprepar'd,
Esteeme him as a Lambe, being compar'd
To halfe a Soule, and to a Notion craz'd,
Would they had stay'd
  Lady. Alack, I am afraid they haue awak'd,
Is he dispatch'd?
Vsing those Thoughts, which should indeed haue dy'd
And be these Iugling Fiends no more beleeu'd,
Hath bow'd you to the Graue, and begger'd
For them, the gracious Duncan haue I murther'd,
   Macd. Your Royall Father's murther'd
O Banquo, Banquo, Our Royall Master's murther'd
Hearke, peace: it was the Owle that shriek'd,
  1 Thrice the brinded Cat hath mew'd
Our Teares are not yet brew'd
With other Graces weigh'd
I shall be counsail'd
Nothing but Males. Will it not be receiu'd,
   2 Thrice, and once the Hedge-Pigge whin'd
  Mal. I would the Friends we misse, were safe arriu'd
walk'd?
Was by a Mowsing Owle hawkt at, and kill'd
Whom you may say (if't please you) Fleans kill'd,
And so his Knell is knoll'd
Of Kernes and Gallowgrosses is supply'd,
Of horrid Hell, can come a Diuell more damn'd
i'th' name of Belzebub? Here's a Farmer, that hang'd
And must be hang'd
To throw away the dearest thing he ow'd,
To giue Obedience, where 'tis truly ow'd:
The time ha's beene, my sences would haue cool'd
   Macb. Here had we now our Countries Honor, roof'd,
But Treasons Capitall, confess'd, and prou'd,
   Macb. We heare our bloody Cozens are bestow'd
No sooner Iustice had, with Valour arm'd,
But get thee backe, my soule is too much charg'd
   Doct. What a sigh is there? The hart is sorely charg'd
And let the Angell whom thou still hast seru'd
Where they must breed, and haunt: I haue obseru'd
To ouertake thee. Would thou hadst lesse deseru'd,
The which no sooner had his Prowesse confirm'd
I, and since too, Murthers haue bene perform'd
Striding the blast, or Heauens Cherubin, hors'd
Vnder a hand accurs'd
Or not those in Commission yet return'd?
further, they made themselues Ayre, into which they vanish'd.
And these are of them: whither are they vanish'd?
And vantage; or that with both he labour'd
But peace; for from broad words, and cause he fayl'd
Liues in the English Court, and is receyu'd
Was pittied of Macbeth: marry he was dead:
Giue me the Daggers: the sleeping, and the dead,
That shake vs Nightly: Better be with the dead,
All is but Toyes: Renowne and Grace is dead,
   Sey. Then he is dead?
   Wife. Yes, he is dead:
  Sey. The Queene (my Lord) is dead
  Wife. Sirra, your Fathers dead,
Thunder. 1. Apparation, an Armed Head.
Enter Macduffe, with Macbeths head.
With twenty trenched gashes on his head;
When I shall treade vpon the Tyrants head,
After these wayes: so, it will make vs mad
Against those Honors deepe, and broad,
As calling home our exil'd Friends abroad,
   Banq. What Sir, not yet at rest? the King's a bed.
done, cannot be vndone. To bed, to bed, to bed.
She strike vpon the Bell. Get thee to bed.
  Macd. Was it so late, friend, ere you went to Bed,
  Doct. Will she go now to bed?
   Macb. As I descended?
   Mal. Be not offended:
Hath left you vnattended.
  Ross. Is't known who did this more then bloody deed?
  Macb. I haue done the deed:
Suspition of the deed
And 'tis not done: th' attempt, and not the deed,
A little Water cleares vs of this deed.
   Macb. To know my deed,
Are ye fantasticall, or that indeed
We are yet but yong indeed.
With thy keene Sword impresse, as make me bleed:
That feares a painted Deuill. If he doe bleed,
Hath Nature that in time will Venom breed,
I must not looke to haue: but in their steed,
And in his commendations, I am fed:
  Wife. I hope in no place so vnsanctified,
looke not so pale: I tell you yet againe Banquo's buried;
He could not misse 'em. Had he not resembled
There the growne Serpent lyes, the worme that's fled
  3. There's but one downe: the Sonne is fled
  Macd. They were subborned,
Making the Greene one, Red.
  Sey. This way my Lord, the Castles gently rendred:
With an vntitled Tyrant, bloody Sceptred,
Kinde Gentlemen, your paines are registred,
Vpon their Pillowes: they star'd, and were distracted,
All the particulars of Vice so grafted,
   All. Well contented.
   Malc. Be comforted.
  Sey. All is confirm'd my Lord, which was reported
To be inuested
   Macd. Ile make so bold to call, for 'tis my limitted
Alarums continued.
My Genius is rebuk'd, as it is said
This is the Ayre-drawne-Dagger which you said
  Rosse. I haue said
He shall liue a man forbid:
   Macd. Stands Scotland where it did?
And when we haue our naked Frailties hid,
Hang vpon his Pent-house Lid:
And choake their Art: The mercilesse Macdonwald
   Macb. I will not yeeld
I beare a charmed Life, which must not yeeld
  La. That which hath made the[m] drunk, hath made me bold:
Thy bones are marrowlesse, thy blood is cold:
And fanne our people cold.
Flye to the Court of England, and vnfold
To cry, hold, hold.
You do not giue the Cheere, the Feast is sold
   Macb. Two Truths are told,
Thus to mine Eyes. Now o're the one halfe World
To spight the World
Whom the vile Blowes and Buffets of the World
Against my neer'st of Life: and though I could
Acting it many wayes. Nay, had I powre, I should
Children, and Seruants; which doe but what they should,
   Doct. You may to me, and 'tis most meet you should
Like our strange Garments, cleaue not to their mould,
Letting I dare not, wait vpon I would,
Contending 'gainst Obedience, as they would
And to be more then what you were, you would
and
and
Banquet prepar'd. Enter Macbeth, Lady, Rosse, Lenox, Lords, and
Drumme and Colours. Enter Malcolme, Seyward, Macduffe, and
Flourish. Enter King, Lenox, Malcolme, Donalbaine, and
I put my selfe to thy Direction, and
   King. Dismay'd not this our Captaines, Macbeth and
  Son. Nay how will you do for a Husband?
My Husband?
  Mur. Where is your Husband?
I pray you schoole your selfe. But for your Husband,
Which must be acted, ere they may be scand
  Malc. Cosins, I hope the dayes are neere at hand
   All. The weyward Sisters, hand in hand,
Such sanctity hath Heauen giuen his hand,
Thunder 3 Apparation, a Childe Crowned, with a Tree in his hand.
A shew of eight Kings, and Banquo last, with a glasse in his hand.
And for his Issue, whose heauie hand
Thence to be wrencht with an vnlineall Hand,
And with thy bloodie and inuisible Hand
of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand.
Strange things I haue in head, that will to hand,
   King. Giue me your hand:
And wash this filthie Witnesse from your Hand.
  Wife. What had he done, to make him fly the Land?
Posters of the Sea and Land,
Which often since my heere remaine in England,
   Macb. Fled to England?
Macduff is fled to England
Ile to England
Henceforth be Earles, the first that euer Scotland
Now is the time of helpe: your eye in Scotland
   Macd. O Scotland, Scotland
Haile King of Scotland
   All. Haile King of Scotland.
   2 Demand
'tis her command
Those he commands, moue onely in command,
Is thine, and my poore Countries to command:
   Ser. There is ten thousand
Vnto a dismall, and a Fatall end.
It hath no end
Descend.
To doubt th' Equiuocation of the Fiend,
  Macb. A Friend
'Gainst my Captiuitie: Haile braue friend;
They presently amend.
I am for th' Ayre: This night Ile spend
  Macb. I heare it by the way: But I will send:
If Charnell houses, and our Graues must send
What good could they pretend?
His Wonders and his Prayses doe contend,
Were poore, and single Businesse, to contend
Cancell and teare to pieces that great Bond,
Thy Letters haue transported me beyond
I haue no rellish of them, but abound
  Ro. Wife, Children, Seruants, all that could be found
So were their Daggers, which vnwip'd, we found
Vprore the vniuersall peace, confound
There hangs a vap'rous drop, profound,
All that impeides thee from the Golden Round,
And weares vpon his Baby-brow, the round
Send out moe Horses, skirre the Country round,
While you performe your Antique round:
Ile catch it ere it come to ground;
Ile Charme the Ayre to giue a sound,
Which shall possesse them with the heauiest sound
T' appease an angry God
Cannot be ill; cannot be good.
Why by the verities on thee made good,
Then the Charme is firme and good.
By the worst meanes, the worst, for mine owne good,
Vnfixe his earth-bound Root? Sweet boadments, good:
Are but as Pictures: 'tis the Eye of Childhood,
Protest their first of Manhood
His Siluer skinne, lac'd with His Golden Blood,
   2 Coole it with a Baboones blood,
All causes shall giue way. I am in blood
Will all great Neptunes Ocean wash this blood
Of direst Crueltie: make thick my blood,
And on thy Blade, and Dudgeon, Gouts of Blood,
Their Hands and Faces were all badg'd with blood,
The sleepie Groomes with blood
Blood will haue Blood:
The Spring, the Head, the Fountaine of your Blood
   Cap. Doubtfull it stood,
Do come to Dunsinane, and now a Wood
   Ang. Neere Byrnan wood
Rebellious dead, rise neuer till the Wood
And the Crow makes Wing toth' Rookie Wood:
That lies like truth. Feare not, till Byrnane Wood
I'th' Ship-mans Card.
We might haue met them darefull, beard to beard,
that euer yet they heard
actuall performances, what (at any time) haue you heard
   Macd. Then yeeld thee Coward,
Things at the worst will cease, or else climbe vpward,
Seyward,
To wake Northumberland, and warlike Seyward,
Enter Malcolme and Seyward.
Enter young Seyward.
Buttrice, nor Coigne of Vantage, but this Bird
   Wife. Poore Bird,
Enter Lenox, and another Lord.
   La. My worthy Lord
  Lady. My Royall Lord,
The Title, is affear'd. Far thee well Lord,
   Murth. We are resolu'd, my Lord
  Lenox. No indeed my Lord
  Doct. Not so sicke my Lord,
   2.Murth. We shall, my Lord,
  Lenox. No my Lord
   Rosse. What sights, my Lord?
   Mes. Gracious my Lord,
   Murth. True, my Lord
  Ban. I, my good Lord
  Len. I, my good Lord
  Lords. What, my good Lord?
  Sey. It is the cry of women, my good Lord
  Lenox. Heere my good Lord.
There would haue beene a time for such a word:
  Len. 'Tis two or three my Lord, that bring you word:
And dare me to the Desart with thy Sword:
   Banq. Hold, take my Sword:
   Y.Sey. Thou lyest abhorred Tyrant, with my Sword
Seize vpon Fife; giue to th' edge o'th' Sword
And ouercome vs like a Summers Clowd,
Is gone, to pray the Holy King, vpon his ayd
   Macb. Can such things be,
   Macd. What should he be?
Glamys thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
The very firstlings of my heart shall be
  1 Come, let's make hast, shee'l soone be
We haue willing Dames enough: there cannot be
I sheath againe vndeeded. There thou should'st be,
Finger of Birth-strangled Babe,
And Pitty, like a naked New-borne-Babe,
To offer vp a weake, poore innocent Lambe
That Darknesse does the face of Earth intombe,
   1. Here I haue a Pilots Thumbe,
Hang loose about him, like a Giants Robe
   Macb. Prythee peace:
   Macd. The Tyrant ha's not batter'd at their peace?
Put Rancours in the Vessell of my Peace
Whom we, to gayne our peace, haue sent to peace,
  Macd. That way the noise is: Tyrant shew thy face,
To finde the Mindes construction in the Face.
The Table round. There's blood vpon thy face
I would, while it was smyling in my Face,
Are Counsailers to feare. What Soldiers Whay-face?
  Seruant. They are, my Lord, without the Pallace
His Mansion, and his Titles, in a place
Why did you bring these Daggers from the place?
   1. Where the place?
Enter the Ghost of Banquo, and sits in Macbeths place.
We will performe in measure, time, and place:
But screw your courage to the sticking place,
A Faulcon towring in her pride of place,
Be so much more the man. Nor time, nor place
Whose howle's his Watch, thus with his stealthy pace,
Now spurres the lated Traueller apace,
Beauteous, and swift, the Minions of their Race,
Of the most Pious Edward, with such grace,
That call's vpon vs, by the Grace of Grace,
That speake him full of Grace.
Though all things foule, would wear the brows of grace
  Macd. Confusion now hath made his Master-peece:
To shew an vnfelt Sorrow, is an Office
Commends th' Ingredience of our poyson'd Challice
Shee'le close, and be her selfe, whilest our poore Mallice
Of Treasonous Mallice
   Macd. This Auarice
To plague th' Inuenter, this euen-handed Iustice
If you will take a homely mans aduice,
   Macb. We should haue else desir'd your good aduice
seruice.
   Lady. All our seruice,
  Macb. Had I but dy'd an houre before this chance,
That I would set my Life on any Chance,
What you haue spoke, it may be so perchance.
Then pitty for Mischance
   Macd. Boundlesse intemperance
And champion me to th' vtterance.
And set forth a deepe Repentance:
Aduise him to a Caution, t' hold what distance
   Macb. So is he mine: and in such bloody distance,
Remoue from her the meanes of all annoyance,
Thy prayses in his Kingdomes great defence,
Do I put vp that womanly defence,
   Lady. And when goes hence?
The Lords anoynted Temple, and stole thence
In the great Hand of God I stand, and thence,
No more then to be Cawdor. Say from whence
This I made good to you, in our last conference,
That palter with vs in a double sence,
And Ile request your presence
In deepest consequence.
Wherein you drest your selfe? Hath it slept since?
Will I with Wine, and Wassell, so conuince,
But go at once
  Macd. Such welcome, and vnwelcom things at once
I take my leaue at once.
And my more-hauing, would be as a Sawce
Like the leauing it. Hee dy'de,
But like a man he dy'de
By him that shall succeede
Thou playd'st most fowly for't: yet it was saide
   Macb. Infected be the Ayre whereon they ride,
Is't farre you ride?
Your Charmes, and euery thing beside;
Your Vessels, and your Spels prouide,
Thunder. 2 Apparition, a Bloody Childe.
Why in that rawnesse left you Wife, and Childe?
(As, and't please Heauen he shall not) they should finde
   1. Th'art kinde
Make Warre with Mankinde
Finding it so inclinde
And to that dauntlesse temper of his Minde,
For Banquo's Issue haue I fil'd my Minde,
   2. Ile giue thee a Winde
Melted, as breath into the Winde.
Curbing his lauish spirit: and to conclude,
Deuotion, Patience, Courage, Fortitude,
The Eye winke at the Hand: yet let that bee,
  Macb. That will neuer bee:
Hath so exasperate their King, that hee
   3. 'Tis hee
   2. Then 'tis hee:
Who did report, that very frankly hee
Not pay thee
The Handle toward my Hand? Come, let me clutch thee:
   Mac. Auant, & quit my sight, let the earth hide thee:
   Macb. Of all men else I haue auoyded thee:
No lesse to haue done so: Let me enfold thee,
Tongue nor Heart cannot conceiue, nor name thee
  Mac. Then liue Macduffe: what need I feare of thee?
And yet I'faith with wit enough for thee
   Macb. Had I three eares, Il'd heare thee
Was a most Sainted-King: the Queene that bore thee,
And breake it to our hope. Ile not fight with thee
If trembling I inhabit then, protest mee
Th' Vsurpers cursed head: the time is free:
Who can impresse the Forrest, bid the Tree
Which shewes me many more: and some I see,
   Sey. Some must go off: and yet by these I see,
Hearke, I am call'd: my little Spirit see
And looke on Death it selfe: vp, vp, and see
Shall Sunne that Morrow see.
Which the Eye feares, when it is done to see.
Leade our first Battell. Worthy Macduffe, and wee
Where euery day I turne the Leafe,
Is falne into the Seare, the yellow Leafe,
To sawcy doubts, and feares. But Banquo's safe?
That Chambers will be safe
Vpon a dwarfish Theefe
Stands not within the prospect of beleefe,
To cure this deadly greefe
   Mal. Be this the Whetstone of your sword, let griefe
   Malc. What's the newest griefe?
The generall cause, or is it a Fee-griefe
Come, put mine Armour on: giue me my Staffe:
Takes from his high respect. Thither Macduffe
Enter Macduffe.
Enter Macduffe.
Alarums. Enter Macduffe.
Exit Macduffe.
Enter Malcolme and Macduffe.
I throw my warlike Shield: Lay on Macduffe,
Heere comes the good Macduffe.
Beware Macduffe,
Drum and Colours. Enter Malcolme, Seyward, Macduffe,
   Len. Sent he to Macduffe?
   La. O proper stuffe:
Cleanse the stufft bosome, of that perillous stuffe
  Macd. No Cosin, Ile to Fife
But vnder heauie Iudgement beares that Life,
   Macb. What is't you say, the Life?
Who weare our Health but sickly in his Life,
I haue liu'd long enough: my way of life
Which thou esteem'st the Ornament of Life,
   Macd. How do's my Wife?
   Macb. O, full of Scorpions is my Minde, deare Wife:
Deare Duff, I prythee contradict thy selfe,
These Euils thou repeat'st vpon thy selfe,
The ayre nimbly and sweetly recommends it selfe
Vaulting Ambition, which ore-leapes it selfe,
In doing it, payes it selfe.
Authoriz'd by her Grandam: shame it selfe,
Bring thou this Fiend of Scotland, and my selfe
'Twere best not know my selfe.
The taints, and blames I laide vpon my selfe,
Which you thought had been our innocent selfe.
Where he bestowes himselfe?
Must minister to himselfe
Alarum'd by his Centinell, the Wolfe,
   3 Scale of Dragon, Tooth of Wolfe,
Witches Mummey, Maw, and Gulfe
Till that Bellona's Bridegroome, lapt in proofe,
And that which should accompany Old-Age,
Like the poore Cat i'th' Addage
(Like Valours Minion) caru'd out his passage,
Then would make vp his Message
But the Norweyan Lord, surueying vantage,
That struts and frets his houre vpon the Stage,
To fright you thus. Me thinkes I am too sauage:
Or else my Sword with an vnbattered edge
   Lords. Our duties, and the pledge
  1.Murth. We are men, my Liege
   2.Murth. I am one, my Liege,
   Mur. What you Egge?
Wooll of Bat, and Tongue of Dogge:
Eye of Newt, and Toe of Frogge,
What Rubarb, Cyme, or what Purgatiue drugge
So should he looke, that seemes to speake things strange
Besides the Thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange:
Without our speciall wonder? You make me strange
And push vs from our stooles. This is more strange
Let's make vs Med'cines of our great Reuenge,
And the surfeted Groomes doe mock their charge
To make me hunger more, that I should forge
And with him poure we in our Countries purge,
But Beare-like I must fight the course. What's he
   Sey. Why then, Gods Soldier be he:
Meete me i'th' Morning: thither he
To act in safetie. There is none but he,
Porter of Hell Gate, hee should haue old turning the
  Fleance. The Moone is downe: I haue not heard the
How easie is it then? your Constancie
But I haue spoke with one that saw him die:
With them they thinke on: things without all remedie
then 'tis time to doo't: Hell is murky. Fye, my Lord, fie,
   Wife. Now God helpe thee, poore Monkie:
Where the Norweyan Banners flowt the Skie,
Is Mortals cheefest Enemie.
   Macb. Both of you know Banquo was your Enemie
  Fleans , his Sonne, that keepes him companie,
Will come, to know his Destinie.
much Drinke may be said to be an Equiuocator with Lecherie:
   Ban. O, Trecherie!
   Macb. O, yet I doe repent me of my furie,
Which the false man do's easie.
In restlesse extasie.
He hath a heauenly guift of Prophesie,
Till seuen at Night, to make societie
There's nothing serious in Mortalitie:
  Lenox. Meane you his Maiestie?
In the Cauldron boyle and bake:
   1 Speake
'Tis not for you to heare what I can speake:
The sleepers of the House? speake, speake
With a new Gorgon. Doe not bid me speake:
   Mal. If such a one be fit to gouerne, speake:
Giue sorrow words; the griefe that do's not speake,
I thinke, but dare not speake
Did not you speake?
Stones haue beene knowne to moue, & Trees to speake:
The Interim hauing weigh'd it, let vs speake
Whispers the o're-fraught heart, and bids it breake
Shew'd like a Rebells Whore: but all's too weake:
  Macb. Thou canst not say I did it: neuer shake
And did shake
Nothing afeard of what thy selfe didst make
   2 Fillet of a Fenny Snake,
I thinke our Country sinkes beneath the yoake,
See, and then speake your selues: awake, awake,
Banquo, and Donalbaine: Malcolme awake,
The clowdy Messenger turnes me his backe,
At least wee'l dye with Harnesse on our backe.
Ring the Alarum Bell, blow Winde, come wracke,
Knocke.
Knocke.
Knocke.
Whole as the Marble, founded as the Rocke,
Thine owne liues meanes: Then 'tis most like,
And bad them speake to him. Then Prophet-like,
Make it their Walke.
He ha's borne all things well, and I do thinke,
What euer I shall thinke
You doe vnbend your Noble strength, to thinke
And yet seeme cold. The time you may so hoodwinke:
   La. Was the hope drunke,
Where got'st thou that Goose-looke
The flighty purpose neuer is o're-tooke
prouoke?
Nor Heauen peepe through the Blanket of the darke,
Roote of Hemlocke, digg'd i'th' darke:
Of the rauin'd salt Sea sharke:
Discomfort swells: Marke King of Scotland, marke,
To leaue no Rubs nor Botches in the Worke:
And question this most bloody piece of worke,
Hath rung Nights yawning Peale,
Meet we the Med'cine of the sickly Weale,
Ere humane Statute purg'd the gentle Weale:
And wakes it now to looke so greene, and pale,
And then is heard no more. It is a Tale
Strange Images of death, as thick as Tale
   Macb. There's comfort yet, they are assaileable,
I see thee yet, in forme as palpable,
   Mac. Fit to gouern? No not to liue. O Natio[n] miserable!
I drinke to th' generall ioy o'th' whole Table,
Of your meere Owne. All these are portable,
Like a Hell-broth, boyle and bubble
Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble
Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble
Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble
And Prophecying, with Accents terrible,
Art thou not fatall Vision, sensible
In euery point twice done, and then done double,
For a Charme of powrefull trouble,
   All. Double, double, toile and trouble;
   All. Double, double, toyle and trouble,
   All. Double, double, toyle and trouble,
The Loue that followes vs, sometime is our trouble,
And thanke vs for your trouble
Hath made his pendant Bed, and procreant Cradle,
The way to dusty death. Out, out, breefe Candle,
   Ang. Now do's he feele
Disdayning Fortune, with his brandisht Steele,
As 'twere a carelesse Trifle
   Macb. If we should faile?
  Lady. We faile?
   1. Banquo, and Macbeth, all haile
   Mal. What I beleeue, Ile waile;
'Tis hard to reconcile.
  Len. For certaine Sir, he is not: I haue a File
All by the Name of Dogges: the valued file
Now, if you haue a station in the file,
   Macb. Good repose the while
But who knowes nothing, is once seene to smile:
And shew like those you are: You (worthy Vnkle)
Where our Fate hid in an augure hole,
This deed Ile do, before this purpose coole,
That trace him in his Line. No boasting like a Foole,
You looke but on a stoole
Himselfe best knowes: but strangely visited people
Golden Opinions from all sorts of people,
I see thee compast with thy Kingdomes Pearle,
Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
   Y.Sey. The diuell himselfe could not pronounce a Title
the King, who all-hail'd me Thane of Cawdor, by which Title
Nothing in loue: Now do's he feele his Title
   Sey. Enter Sir, the Castle.
Childe of integrity, hath from my soule
Within the belt of Rule
Her yong ones in her Nest, against the Owle:
   1. Hayle
   2. Hayle
   3. Hayle
But in a Syue Ile thither sayle,
And like a Rat without a tayle,
A good and vertuous Nature may recoyle
Say to the King, the knowledge of the Broyle,
Thy goary lockes at me
   2. Shew me, shew me
Into his power: and modest Wisedome pluckes me
How tender 'tis to loue the Babe that milkes me,
   Macb. Bring it after me:
I goe, and it is done: the Bell inuites me.
Euen till destruction sicken: Answer me
(How ere you come to know it) answer me:
By many of these traines, hath sought to win me
How is't with me, when euery noyse appalls me?
That man may question? you seeme to vnderstand me,
Why Chance may Crowne me,
  Mac. Hath he ask'd for me?
Sits in Foggy cloud, and stayes for me.
A heauie Summons lyes like Lead vpon me,
For the Blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles vpon me,
When first they put the Name of King vpon me,
Seyton, send out: Doctor, the Thanes flye from me:
Is this a Dagger, which I see before me,
Whose absence is no lesse materiall to me,
When those that gaue the Thane of Cawdor to me,
Leaue all the rest to me.
That made you breake this enterprize to me?
So prythee goe with me.
  Lady. My Hands are of your colour: but I shame
Is't Nights predominance, or the Dayes shame,
   La. Fie for shame
   Ment. Who then shall blame
Into the Flame
  All. A deed without a name
For braue Macbeth (well hee deserues that Name)
   Y.Sey. No: though thou call'st thy selfe a hoter name
  Y.Sey. What is thy name?
Knock, knock. Who's there in th' other Deuils Name?
   Gent. It is an accustom'd action with her, to seeme
Which Fate and Metaphysicall ayde doth seeme
And liue a Coward in thine owne Esteeme?
Thou'dst neuer Feare the Net, nor Lime,
In the diuision of each seuerall Crime,
   Macb. Blood hath bene shed ere now, i'th' olden time
To the last Syllable of Recorded time:
May reade strange matters, to beguile the time.
If you would graunt the time
Onely it spoyles the pleasure of the time
And take the present horror from the time,
Which would be planted newly with the time,
And hums; as who should say, you'l rue the time
  Ban. As farre, my Lord, as will fill vp the time
Let euery man be master of his time,
At what it did so freely? From this time,
   3 Harpier cries, 'tis time, 'tis time
New hatch'd toth' wofull time.
  Mal. We shall not spend a large expence of time,
If you can looke into the Seedes of Time,
But heere, vpon this Banke and Schoole of time,
What hath chanc'd: and at more time,
Our Hostesse keepes her State, but in best time
Acquaint you with the perfect Spy o'th' time,
And liue to be the shew, and gaze o'th' time.
Is often laudable, to do good sometime
I cannot taint with Feare. What's the Boy Malcolme?
What, All my pretty Chickens, and their Damme
  3. A Drumme, a Drumme:
Wrackt, as homeward he did come.
So from that Spring, whence comfort seem'd to come,
Which shall to all our Nights, and Dayes to come,
Macbeth doth come
(Impostors to true feare) would well become
We will require her welcome
The sweeter welcome:
For my heart speakes, they are welcome.
At first and last, the hearty welcome
Whose care is gone before, to bid vs welcome:
You may discerne of him through me, and wisedome
Reigne in this Kingdome?
Giue solely soueraigne sway, and Masterdome
'Tis giuen, with welcome: to feede were best at home:
   Banq. That trusted home,
What will the Line stretch out to'th' cracke of Doome?
   Gent. I would not haue such a heart in my bosome,
Point against Point, rebellious Arme 'gainst Arme,
I am in this earthly world: where to do harme
To say I haue done no harme?
And oftentimes, to winne vs to our harme,
   Macd. Dispaire thy Charme,
Would to the bleeding, and the grim Alarme
I will not be affraid of Death and Bane,
It was for Malcolme, and for Donalbane
Not beare the knife my selfe. Besides, this Duncane
  Lord. The Sonnes of Duncane
   Lady. What doe you meane?
   Lady. Who was it, that thus cry'd? why worthy Thane,
   Macd. Is the King stirring, worthy Thane?
   King. Whence cam'st thou, worthy Thane?
In which addition, haile most worthy Thane,
Though Byrnane wood be come to Dunsinane,
Till Birnane Forrest come to Dunsinane
Till Byrnane wood remoue to Dunsinane,
  Ment. The wood of Birnane
Too terrible for the eare. The times has bene,
In Nature is a Tyranny: It hath beene
  Macb. So foule and faire a day I haue not seene
Within the Volume of which Time, I haue seene
Of this dead Butcher, and his Fiend-like Queene;
Shake my fell purpose, nor keepe peace betweene
Then such an one to reigne
With Tarquins rauishing sides, towards his designe
  Lady. Donalbaine
Hoboyes, and Torches. Enter King, Malcolme, Donalbaine,
Enter Malcolme and Donalbaine.
To ratifie the Worke) we may againe
  1. When shall we three meet againe?
Wee'l heare our selues againe.
When shalt thou see thy wholsome dayes againe?
   Macb. Then comes my Fit againe:
Backe againe.
   Son. Then you'l by 'em to sell againe
Shall not be long but Ile be heere againe:
And there an end: But now they rise againe
Shall neuer tremble. Or be aliue againe,
   Son. Thou ly'st thou shagge-ear'd Villaine
My voice is in my Sword, thou bloodier Villaine
   Macb. Geese Villaine?
Fight, and young Seyward slaine.
  Macd. Those that Macbeth hath slaine
Enter Fighting, and Macbeth slaine.
   Macb. The labour we delight in, Physicks paine:
In Thunder, Lightning, or in Raine?
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed Braine?
That Memorie, the Warder of the Braine,
Raze out the written troubles of the Braine,
Vnmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refraine,
meeting a bleeding Captaine.
(A thing most strange, and certaine)
Do call it valiant Fury, but for certaine
For a darke houre, or twaine
The multitudinous Seas incarnardine,
As vpon thee Macbeth, their Speeches shine,
But signes of Noblenesse, like Starres, shall shine
For it is thine
Death of thy Soule, those Linnen cheekes of thine
   Macd. If it be mine
For certaine friends that are both his, and mine,
If thou beest slaine, and with no stroake of mine,
Not for their owne demerits, but for mine
Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,
Whose voyces I desire alowd with mine.
Wearie Seu'nights, nine times nine,
And thrice againe, to make vp nine.
Shall he dwindle, peake, and pine:
  Port. Marry, Sir, Nose-painting, Sleepe, and Vrine.
To what they were before. My pretty Cosine,
  2. Killing Swine
When all that is within him, do's condemne
Sodaine, Malicious, smacking of euery sinne
And yet would'st wrongly winne.
Seywards Sonne,
Of all the Gentry; there is Seywards Sonne,
Shall with my Cosin your right Noble Sonne
   Mal. Macduffe is missing, and your Noble Sonne
Hath bene but for a wayward Sonne,
When the Battaile's lost, and wonne
   King. What he hath lost, Noble Macbeth hath wonne.
   3. That will be ere the set of Sunne
That was not borne of Woman? Such a one
So thankes to all at once, and to each one,
Each minute teemes a new one
But yet 'tis one
The House-keeper, the Hunter, euery one
  Wife. Euery one
Dayes and Nights, ha's thirty one:
Whom we inuite, to see vs Crown'd at Scone.
   Macd. He is already nam'd, and gone to Scone
   Rosse. Will you to Scone?
  2. When the Hurley-burley's done,
Why do you make such faces? When all's done
   Sold. It shall be done
   Lady. What's to be done?
To Crown my thoughts with Acts: be it thoght & done:
   1. Well, let's away, and say how much is done.
   Rosse. Ile see it done
Should be without regard: what's done, is done
I am afraid, to thinke what I haue done:
And which is worse, all you haue done
  Macb. Where are they? Gone?
Vnreall mock'ry hence. Why so, being gone
We will keepe our selfe till Supper time alone:
Pertaines to you alone
How now, my Lord, why doe you keepe alone?
   Wife. He had none:
   3. Thou shalt get Kings, though thou be none:
An older, and a better Souldier, none
Who dares do more, is none
That ha's a name. But there's no bottome, none
Am I to feare, or none.
   Banq. So I lose none,
The diuell damne thee blacke, thou cream-fac'd Loone:
Vpon the Corner of the Moone
Great businesse must be wrought ere Noone.
   Macb. Ride you this afternoone?
Not cast aside so soone
Since that the truest Issue of thy Throne
And sundry Blessings hang about his Throne,
Th' vntimely emptying of the happy Throne,
Toad, that vnder cold stone,
   Lady. But in them, Natures Coppie's not eterne
Brandish'd by man that's of a Woman borne.
And thou oppos'd, being of no woman borne,
To one of woman borne
The powre of man: For none of woman borne
Laugh to scorne
But Swords I smile at, Weapons laugh to scorne,
Bestride our downfall Birthdome: each new Morne,
And dasht the Braines out, had I so sworne
Vnknowne to Woman, neuer was forsworne,
  Macd. Turne Hell-hound, turne
Bloody Instructions, which being taught, returne
write vpon't, read it, afterwards Seale it, and againe returne
Which held you so vnder fortune,
Seemes bruited. Let me finde him Fortune,
So wearie with Disasters, tugg'd with Fortune,
Scarsely haue coueted what was mine owne.
The Haruest is your owne
Still to returne your owne
  Macb. You know your owne degrees, sit downe:
   1. Let it come downe
Where we lay, our Chimneys were blowne downe,
Your leauy Skreenes throw downe,
Though bladed Corne be lodg'd, & Trees blown downe,
   Lad. Wash your hands, put on your Night-Gowne,
Then be thou iocund: ere the Bat hath flowne
of that: Heauen knowes what she ha's knowne
That hast no lesse deseru'd, nor must be knowne
Courage, to make's loue knowne?
Might yet enkindle you vnto the Crowne,
Vpon my Head they plac'd a fruitlesse Crowne,
Hath so incens'd, that I am recklesse what I doe,
Ile doe, Ile doe, and Ile doe
  Malc. What will you doe?
And that which rather thou do'st feare to doe,
Our Offices, and what we haue to doe,
So they doubly redoubled stroakes vpon the Foe:
In your nature, that you can let this goe?
Within my Swords length set him, if he scape
On which I must fall downe, or else o're-leape,
Our feares in Banquo sticke deepe,
In seeking to augment it, but still keepe
   Macb. There's one did laugh in's sleepe,
   La. You lacke the season of all Natures, sleepe
Ere we will eate our Meale in feare, and sleepe
Macbeth does murther Sleepe, the innocent Sleepe,
That were the Slaues of drinke, and thralles of sleepe?
And yet I would not sleepe:
to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleepe
A Lymbeck onely: when in Swinish sleepe,
And addrest them againe to sleepe
And wee'le not fayle: when Duncan is asleepe,
And put a barren Scepter in my Gripe,
Or did lyne the Rebell with hidden helpe,
My Gashes cry for helpe
And yet darke Night strangles the trauailing Lampe:
Most sacrilegious Murther hath broke ope
Of Noble hauing, and of Royall hope,
   Malc. 'Tis his maine hope:
Though Pallaces, and Pyramids do slope
At one fell swoope?
  1. A Saylors Wife had Chestnuts in her Lappe,
For the whole Space that's in the Tyrants Graspe,
Disguising what they are
Come bring me where they are.
  Hec. Haue I not reason (Beldams) as you are?
Who chafes, who frets, or where Conspirers are:
Wee'l haue thee, as our rarer Monsters are
   3 Appar. Be Lyon metled, proud, and take no care:
Sleepe that knits vp the rauel'd Sleeue of Care,
   Macb. What man dare, I dare:
Sawcy, and ouer-bold, how did you dare
The repetition in a Womans eare,
That I may powre my Spirits in thine Eare,
More hatefull to mine eare
That keepe the word of promise to our eare,
The minde I sway by, and the heart I beare,
Approach thou like the rugged Russian Beare,
Can post with post, and euery one did beare
He shall spurne Fate, scorne Death, and beare
All continent Impediments would ore-beare
As the weyard Women promis'd, and I feare
   Macb. Go pricke thy face, and ouer-red thy feare
Whether it was his wisedome, or his feare
His hopes 'boue Wisedome, Grace, and Feare:
Heare not my steps, which they may walke, for feare
The Sword of our slaine Kings: yet do not feare,
Speake then to me, who neyther begge, nor feare
To alter fauor, euer is to feare:
   Banq. Good Sir, why doe you start, and seeme to feare
When mine is blanch'd with feare
Shall neuer sagge with doubt, nor shake with feare.
This is the very painting of your feare:
From what we feare, yet know not what we feare,
His presence at the Tyrants Feast, I heare
And damn'd all those that trust them. I did heare
My Bosome franchis'd, and Allegeance cleare,
  Lady. Onely looke vp cleare:
They must lye there: goe carry them, and smeare
If this which he auouches, do's appeare,
[The Tragedie of Macbeth by William Shakespeare 1603]
In pious rage, the two delinquents teare,
Were on the Quarry of these murther'd Deere
Thy hope ends heere
  Macd. See who comes heere
Might be the be all, and the end all. Heere,
Profit againe should hardly draw me heere.
   Doct. Were I from Dunsinane away, and cleere,
  Banq. Toth' selfe-same tune and words: who's here?
  Donal. What should be spoken here,
Who comes here?
That tend on mortall thoughts, vnsex me here,
There is nor flying hence, nor tarrying here.
Who's there?
Knock, Knock, Knock. Who's there
Giue me my Sword: who's there?
  Mal. Let vs seeke out some desolate shade, & there
   Macb. Prythee see there:
   Malc. Perchance euen there
It selfe, for being there
   Son. Then the Liars and Swearers are Fools: for there
Come in, without there.
   Macb. Where?
  Ban. Too cruell, any where.
  Porter. Here's a knocking indeede: if a man were
If I say sooth, I must report they were
I cannot but remember such things were
   All. Padock calls anon: faire is foule, and foule is faire,
Best halfe of our Affaire
Thy Crowne do's seare mine Eye-bals. And thy haire
To heare a Night-shrieke, and my Fell of haire
Whose horrid Image doth vnfixe my Heire,
What hath quench'd them, hath giuen me fire.
A womans story, at a Winters fire
goe the Primrose way to th' euerlasting Bonfire.
The Cesterne of my Lust, and my Desire
Returning were as tedious as go ore:
They say he parted well, and paid his score,
Shall haue more vices then it had before,
Was heauie on me. Thou art so farre before,
   Sey. Had he his hurts before?
the desire, but it takes away the performance. Therefore
  Macb. What Newes more?
Who almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
   Macb. Stay you imperfect Speakers, tell me more:
Stept in so farre, that should I wade no more,
   Macb. Me thought I heard a voyce cry, Sleep no more:
Another yet? A seauenth? Ile see no more:
   Macb. Ile goe no more:
  All. Seeke to know no more
Shall sleepe no more: Macbeth shall sleepe no more
And set me vp in hope. But hush, no more.
   Sey. He's worth no more,
Thou hast harp'd my feare aright. But one word more
This is the Doore
Who should against his Murtherer shut the doore,
As we shall make our Griefes and Clamor rore,
Towards which, aduance the warre.
The Noble Thanes do brauely in the Warre,
Prepares for some attempt of Warre
Without my stirre
Would at a dismall Treatise rowze, and stirre
That teares shall drowne the winde. I haue no Spurre
Keepes still in Dunsinane, and will indure
Vnspeake mine owne detraction. Heere abiure
this a quarter of an houre
I haue almost slipt the houre
Let this pernitious houre,
   Gent. She ha's spoke what shee should not, I am sure
Great Tyrrany, lay thou thy basis sure,
But yet Ile make assurance: double sure,
He hath beene in vnusuall Pleasure,
To make their Audit at your Highnesse pleasure,
Our pleasure?
  Sey. What's your gracious pleasure?
Be large in mirth, anon wee'l drinke a Measure
Their heads to their Foundations: Though the treasure
   Lady. Say to the King, I would attend his leysure,
   Banq. At your kind'st leysure
   Banq. Worthy Macbeth, wee stay vpon your leysure
What thou art promis'd: yet doe I feare thy Nature,
And his gash'd Stabs, look'd like a Breach in Nature,
The multiplying Villanies of Nature
That no compunctious visitings of Nature
The least a Death to Nature
According to the gift, which bounteous Nature
Where sighes, and groanes, and shrieks that rent the ayre
Vpon the sightlesse Curriors of the Ayre,
Houer through the fogge and filthie ayre.
As easie may'st thou the intrenchant Ayre
As broad, and generall, as the casing Ayre:
That would be howl'd out in the desert ayre,
And (as they say) lamentings heard i'th' Ayre;
So wither'd, and so wilde in their attyre,
The Water of my Land, finde her Disease,
   Banquo. How farre is't call'd to Soris? What are these,
That Function is smother'd in surmise,
That would'st thou holily: would'st not play false,
   Macb. If thou speak'st false,
Tooke off her life. This, and what need full else
Taylor come hither, for stealing out of a French Hose:
   Old M. Gods benyson go with you, and with those
my life fast asleepe: obserue her, stand close
Come in Taylor, here you may rost your Goose.
Which he deserues to loose.
That Nature giues way to in repose.
For thy vndaunted Mettle should compose
We courst him at the heeles, and had a purpose
   Lady. Infirme of purpose:
That which you are, my thoughts cannot transpose;
Sliuer'd in the Moones Ecclipse:
The Rauen himselfe is hoarse,
Crauing vs ioyntly. Hye you to Horse:
Is to auoid the ayme. Therefore to Horse,
Stop vp th' accesse, and passage to Remorse,
  La. I pray you speake not: he growes worse & worse
And to be baited with the Rabbles curse.
Balme of hurt Mindes, great Natures second Course,
And yet the eighth appeares, who beares a glasse,
If ill? why hath it giuen me earnest of successe,
   Macb. I coniure you, by that which you Professe,
And yet hee's Father-lesse
It is too full o'th' Milke of humane kindnesse,
Who, may I rather challenge for vnkindnesse,
Now wee'l together, and the chance of goodnesse
As Iustice, Verity, Temp'rance, Stablenesse,
Layes blame vpon his promise. Pleas't your Highnesse
   Banq. Let your Highnesse
What is't that moues your Highnesse?
  Murth. It was, so please your Highnesse
   Macb. Let's briefely put on manly readinesse,
Bounty, Perseuerance, Mercy, Lowlinesse,
   King. Great happinesse
We would spend it in some words vpon that Businesse,
  Lady. What's the Businesse?
  Mac. We will proceed no further in this Businesse:
   Gent. Neither to you, nor any one, hauing no witnesse
What know, beleeue; and what I can redresse,
  King. See, see our honor'd Hostesse:
To his home before vs: Faire and Noble Hostesse
By the name of most kind Hostesse,
By your leaue Hostesse.
And to our deere Friend Banquo, whom we misse:
  Donal. What is amisse?
Which would be worne now in their newest glosse,
Enter Rosse.
Exit Rosse.
Enter Macbeth, Lenox, and Rosse.
Enter Macduffes Wife, her Son, and Rosse.
  Mal. The worthy Thane of Rosse
He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause
Nature seemes dead, and wicked Dreames abuse
   Macb. Come, wee'l to sleepe: My strange & self-abuse
  Macb. Still it cry'd, Sleepe no more to all the House:
There's not a one of them but in his house
Desire his Iewels, and this others House,
Wherewith your Maiestie loades our House:
What, in our House?
Ten thousand Dollars, to our generall vse
But with the aid of vse
Is the initiate feare, that wants hard vse:
And such an Instrument I was to vse.
Whiles Nights black Agents to their Prey's doe rowse.
Good things of Day begin to droope, and drowse,
Didst thou not heare a noyse?
And beate them backward home. What is that noyse?
The ayre is delicate.
Then is his Fathers, must embrace the fate
Gate
So all men doe, from hence toth' Pallace Gate
  Lady. To bed, to bed: there's knocking at the gate:
Your fauors, nor your hate
And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late,
For Fleans fled: Men must not walke too late.
That you doe lye so late?
Thoughts speculatiue, their vnsure hopes relate,
But certaine issue, stroakes must arbitrate,
And our Duties are to your Throne, and State,
When therewithall, we shall haue cause of State,
Will seeme as pure as Snow, and the poore State
The newest state
And yet your Beards forbid me to interprete
To weare a Heart so white.
Now good digestion waite on Appetite,
And with some sweet Obliuious Antidote
There shall be done a deed of dreadfull note
By this great clatter, one of greatest note
stickes deeper: growes with more pernicious roote
   Appar. Be bloody, bold, & resolute:
So humbly take my leaue
Looke what I haue
   Doct. This disease is beyond my practise: yet I haue
  Gent. Since his Maiesty went into the Field, I haue
  Lady. They met me in the day of successe: and I haue
knowne those which haue walkt in their sleep, who haue
himselfe on th' expectation of Plentie: Come in time, haue
Augures, and vnderstood Relations, haue
Vnsafe the while, that wee must laue
Thou may'st reuenge. O Slaue!
Till hee fac'd the Slaue:
   Macb. Lyar, and Slaue
he cannot come out on's graue
Duncane is in his Graue:
And chastise with the valour of my Tongue
Present him Eminence, both with Eye and Tongue:
   King. No more that Thane of Cawdor shall deceiue
Hath in him clos'd: whereby he does receiue
And take a Bond of Fate: thou shalt not liue,
And what will you do now? How will you liue?
Vpon the next Tree shall thou hang aliue
For 'twould haue anger'd any heart aliue
   Banq. And she goes downe at Twelue
Is ripe for shaking, and the Powres aboue
That by the helpe of these (with him aboue)
From ouer-credulous hast: but God aboue
All is the Feare, and nothing is the Loue;
That I to your assistance doe make loue,
Th' expedition of my violent Loue
Those precious Motiues, those strong knots of Loue,
   Macb. My dearest Loue,
By doing euery thing safe toward your Loue
The Wood began to moue
   Malc. I know him now. Good God betimes remoue
I say, a mouing Groue
The Temple-haunting Barlet does approue,
Yet when we can entreat an houre to serue,
Horrible sight: Now I see 'tis true,
   Banq. What, can the Deuill speake true?
   Macd. Oh Relation; too nice, and yet too true
The healing Benediction. With this strange vertue,
Euen to the disposition that I owe,
   Macb. The seruice, and the loyaltie I owe,
What we shall say we haue, and what we owe:
That when the Braines were out, the man would dye,
  Macb. Why should I play the Roman Foole, and dye
Whether they liue, or dye.
All swolne and Vlcerous, pittifull to the eye,
Masking the Businesse from the common Eye,
Shall blow the horrid deed in euery eye,
Looke like the time, beare welcome in your Eye,
Will laugh a Siedge to scorne: Heere let them lye,
equiuocates him in a sleepe, and giuing him the Lye,
   Son. And must they all be hang'd, that swear and lye?
Then on the torture of the Minde to lye
  Wife. Whether should I flye?
  Macb. They haue tied me to a stake, I cannot flye,
Flye good Fleans, flye, flye, flye,
Are with a most indissoluble tye
Smells wooingly here: no Iutty frieze,
The Castle of Macduff, I will surprize.
Whose execution takes your Enemie off,
The deepe damnation of his taking off:
Enter Macduff.
And would not take their part? Sinfull Macduff,
His Vnkle Seyward, and the good Macduff.
Is left this Vault, to brag of.
haue I thought good to deliuer thee (my dearest Partner of
Greatnesse) that thou might'st not loose the dues of reioycing
At our great bidding
The Life o'th' Building
   Lady. Giue him tending,
Exeunt. marching.
Exeunt. marching
Menteth, Cathnes, Angus, and Soldiers Marching.
once the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of watching.
Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
Makes vs heare something
He hath not touch'd you yet. I am yong, but something
   Ment. We doubt it nothing
I haue a strange infirmity, which is nothing
Mallice domestique, forraine Leuie, nothing,
Signifying nothing.
That the maleuolence of Fortune, nothing
Be call'd our Mother, but our Graue; where nothing
What is this, that rises like the issue of a King,
A stanchlesse Auarice, that were I King,
  Rosse. From Fiffe, great King,
   Banq. You shall be King
A prosperous Gentleman: And to be King,
   Rosse. That now Sweno, the Norwayes King,
   Rosse. God saue the King
   Macb. If Chance will haue me King,
A most myraculous worke in this good King,
No lesse in truth then life. My first false speaking
That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a making:
Of sorryest Fancies your Companions making,
And let vs not be daintie of leaue-taking,
  Macb. Whence is that knocking?
Wake Duncan with thy knocking:
Hearke, more knocking.
And Fortune on his damned Quarry smiling,
But be the Serpent vnder't. He that's comming,
Shall we well meet them, that way are they comming
Within this three Mile may you see it comming.
   Mess. So please you, it is true: our Thane is comming:
And all-thing vnbecomming
Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going,
Stand not vpon the order of your going,
Like Elues and Fairies in a Ring,
  Macd. Is thy Master stirring?
And now about the Cauldron sing
In England, and in Ireland, not confessing
His Message ere he come, that a swift blessing
Our point of second meeting.
With such Prophetique greeting?
This supernaturall solliciting
my Lord, no more o'that: you marre all with this starting
Adders Forke, and Blinde-wormes Sting,
Lizards legge, and Howlets wing:
By each at once her choppie finger laying
My Father is not dead for all your saying
requited him for his Lye, and (I thinke) being too strong
Musicke, and a Song.
Now minutely Reuolts vpbraid his Faith-breach:
We still haue iudgement heere, that we but teach
Whither indeed, before they heere approach
The hearing of my Wife, with your approach:
to confirme my speech.
  La. Almost at oddes with morning, which is which
Till he disbursed, at Saint Colmes ynch,
Enter Banquo and Fleans, with a Torch.
Enter Macbeth, and a Seruant with a Torch.
Could trammell vp the Consequence, and catch
Thou Lilly-liuer'd Boy. What Soldiers, Patch?
This Nights great Businesse into my dispatch,
The subiect of our Watch
I care not if thou dost for me as much.
would haue thought the olde man to haue had so much
The great assay of Art. But at his touch,
In my most ill-composd Affection, such
   Malc. Let euery Souldier hew him downe a Bough,
   Macb. Till then enough:
And damn'd be him, that first cries hold, enough.
Beware the Thane of Fife: dismisse me. Enough.
  Mal. Now neere enough:
Oh, oh, oh
Banquoh?
It weepes, it bleeds, and each new day a gash
Knock, Knock, Knock. Who's there? 'Faith here's an English
Witches vanish.
Musicke. The Witches Dance, and vanish.
Flourish.
When I behold: Seyton, I say, this push
The death of each dayes Life, sore Labors Bath,
Their drenched Natures lyes as in a Death,
I would not wish them to a fairer death:
As one that had beene studied in his death,
Vpon his Death?
Our Bosome interest: Goe pronounce his present death,
Strange Schreemes of Death,
In Riddles, and Affaires of death;
Those clamorous Harbingers of Blood, & Death.
  2. Vpon the Heath
Shall liue the Lease of Nature, pay his breath
   Macd. Make all our Trumpets speak, giue the[m] all breath
By his loued Mansonry, that the Heauens breath
Curses, not lowd but deepe, Mouth-honor, breath
We are comming thither: Gracious England hath
  3. Macbeth
Of Byrnan rise, and our high plac'd Macbeth
  Rosse. The King hath happily receiu'd, Macbeth,
   Macb. My name's Macbeth
And with his former Title greet Macbeth
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Seruice ouer the Stage. Then enter Macbeth
That did oppose my will. Better Macbeth,
That when they shall be open'd, blacke Macbeth
Shall harme Macbeth.
FINIS. THE TRAGEDIE OF MACBETH.
Are hyr'd to beare their Staues; either thou Macbeth,
The Soueraignty will fall vpon Macbeth
In euils, to top Macbeth
To thy good Truth, and Honor. Diuellish Macbeth,
   1 Appar. Macbeth, Macbeth, Macbeth:
  2 Appar. Macbeth, Macbeth, Macbeth
   3. There to meet with Macbeth
To Trade, and Trafficke with Macbeth,
Our lacke is nothing but our leaue. Macbeth
The Cry is still, they come: our Castles strength
Alarum within. Enter King Malcome, Donalbaine, Lenox, with
Which thou dost glare with
   Len. Good night, and better health
And purge it to a sound and pristine Health,
Destroying them for wealth
Faith here's an Equiuocator, that could sweare in both
Did then adhere, and yet you would make both:
And health on both
   Macb. Good morrow both
Till Famine cling thee: If thy speech be sooth,
Remaines in danger of her former Tooth.
Moues like a Ghost. Thou sowre and firme-set Earth
All vnity on earth
That looke not like th' Inhabitants o'th' Earth,
(From whom this Tyrant holds the due of Birth)
   La. You haue displac'd the mirth,
By Maggot Pyes, & Choughes, & Rookes brought forth
  Mal. Well, more anon. Comes the King forth
Already at a point, was setting foorth:
To you they haue shew'd some truth
Things that doe sound so faire? i'th' name of truth
  Lady. I
for him, though he tooke vp my Legges sometime, yet I
   Don. To Ireland, I:
   Macd. And so doe I
  Lord. He did: and with an absolute Sir, not I
Giue me, quoth I.
   Port. That it did, Sir, i'the very Throat on me: but I
  Mal. My Liege, they are not yet come back.
  Port. Faith Sir, we were carowsing till the second Cock:
Clock
Knock.
Knock.
Knock.
Knock.
Knock.
  Macb. Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest Chuck,
As I shall finde the time to friend: I wil.
  Banq. Thou hast it now, King, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
   All. So all
   La. A kinde goodnight to all.
And all to all
To those that know me. Come, loue and health to all,
Did you say All? Oh Hell-Kite! All?
  Macb. Bring me no more Reports, let them flye all:
Now goe to the Doore, and stay there till we call.
My Thought, whose Murther yet is but fantasticall,
Whose loues I may not drop, but wayle his fall,
To haue thee crown'd withall.
Ile guild the Faces of the Groomes withall,
This Diamond he greetes your Wife withall,
Is added to her wounds. I thinke withall,
  Macb. Into the Ayre: and what seem'd corporall,
  Old man. 'Tis vnnaturall,
Quarrels vniust against the Good and Loyall,
To countenance this horror. Ring the Bell.
Would murther as it fell.
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
His wisedome can prouide. Some holy Angell
Then any is in hell
And pall thee in the dunnest smoake of Hell,
That summons thee to Heauen, or to Hell.
Poure the sweet Milke of Concord, into Hell,
   Lenox. My young remembrance cannot paralell
Heare it not, Duncan, for it is a Knell,
A Moderne extasie: The Deadmans knell,
Macduffe liues in disgrace. Sir, can you tell
Which might appall the Diuell
Of our great quell
   Banq. All's well.
May they not be my Oracles as well,
  Old man. Threescore and ten I can remember well,
To be his Purueyor: But he rides well,
Dy'de euery day she liu'd. Fare thee well,
After Lifes fitfull Feuer, he sleepes well,
   Macb. If it were done, when 'tis done, then 'twer well,
  Rosse. Why well
Was once thought honest: you haue lou'd him well,
   Doct. Well, well, well
   Rosse. Gentlemen rise, his Highnesse is not well
   Sey. Fare you well:
Onely for them, and mine eternall Iewell
it to thy heart and farewell.
Farwell.
Things bad begun, make strong themselues by ill:
Particular addition, from the Bill,
If thou did'st it, thou art the Non-pareill
   Mes. As I did stand my watch vpon the Hill
Great Byrnam Wood, to high Dunsmane Hill
  Macd. Carried to Colmekill,
Macbeth shall neuer vanquish'd be, vntill
I haue thee not, and yet I see thee still.
Or else worth all the rest: I see thee still;
Thou maruell'st at my words: but hold thee still,
I am a man againe: pray you sit still
My Wife and Childrens Ghosts will haunt me still:
   Rosse. 'Gainst Nature still,
  Mal. Tis call'd the Euill.
   Seruant. Madame, I will.
  Lenox. What's your Graces will
Scotland hath Foysons, to fill vp your will
  Macb. The Table's full
Then Ile sit downe: Giue me some Wine, fill full:
And fill me from the Crowne to the Toe, top-full
   Macb. No: nor more fearefull
Luxurious, Auaricious, False, Deceitfull,
Ile be my selfe the Herbenger, and make ioyfull
They were all strooke for thee: Naught that I am,
  Rosse. You must haue patience Madam
   Macb. Call 'em: let me see 'em
  Rosse. No, they were wel at peace, when I did leaue 'em
Where hearing should not latch them
To reade them.
That I did kill them
   Son. Who must hang them?
Would scowre these English hence: hear'st y of them?
   Macb. I thinke not of them:
mortall knowledge. When I burnt in desire to question them
Do better vpon them.
Are stolne away and fled, which puts vpon them
Of many Kings. If there come truth from them,
Promis'd no lesse to them
No mans Life was to be trusted with them
The Instruments: who wrought with them:
Let's not consort with them:
That Death and Nature doe contend about them,
and hang vp them
   Macb. If I stand heere, I saw him
Where such as thou may'st finde him
And shall continue, our Graces towards him.
Whose being I doe feare: and vnder him,
It is a Banquet to me. Let's after him,
leaues him
blood in him
And his great Loue (sharpe as his Spurre) hath holp him
Nothing in his Life became him,
Haue ouerthrowne him
One of my fellowes had the speed of him;
   Macd. He did command me to call timely on him,
  Mur. My Lord his throat is cut, that I did for him
and that Ile spend for him
   Banq. New Honors come vpon him
Enter Banquo, and Fleance, with a Torch before him.
And powr'd them downe before him
made a Shift to cast him.
Shall come against him.
Which neu'r shooke hands, nor bad farwell to him,
   Macb. Ile bring you to him
Some say hee's mad: Others, that lesser hate him,
That I require a clearenesse; and with him,
   Lord. Ile send my Prayers with him.
He will againe be well. If much you note him
  Ment. The English powre is neere, led on by Malcolm,
Retreat, and Flourish. Enter with Drumme and Colours, Malcolm,
   Mal. Oh, by whom?
Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came Missiues from
Fight: Alarum
Exeunt. Alarum
  Doct. I haue too Nights watch'd with you, but can
Out-run the pawser, Reason. Here lay Duncan,
That croakes the fatall entrance of Duncan
Things haue bin strangely borne. The gracious Duncan
More needs she the Diuine, then the Physitian:
But I must also feele it as a man;
He onely liu'd but till he was a man,
  Malc. Dispute it like a man
I dare do all that may become a man,
Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
When you durst do it, then you were a man:
Excite the mortified man
Enter Rosse, with an Old man.
Loyall, and Neutrall, in a moment? No man:
Giuen to the common Enemie of Man,
For it hath Cow'd my better part of man:
Shakes so my single state of Man,
Are you so Gospell'd, to pray for this good man,
   King. O valiant Cousin, worthy Gentleman
Feare not Macbeth, no man that's borne of woman
  Macb. Thou was't borne of woman;
Enter a Doctor of Physicke, and a Wayting Gentlewoman.
It is a peerelesse Kinsman.
Make we our March towards Birnan.
   La. What Beast was't then
   Mur. 'Tis Banquo's then
learn'd by the perfect'st report, they haue more in them, then
   Macb. Well then,
Must not be measur'd by his worth, for then
  Macb. When?
Dying, or ere they sicken
Put on with holy Prayers, and 'tis spoken
I am as I haue spoken
Nor would we deigne him buriall of his men,
Old Seyward with ten thousand warlike men
Lent vs good Seyward, and ten thousand men,
With furbusht Armes, and new supplyes of men,
That writes them all alike: and so of men.
   Macb. I, in the Catalogue ye goe for men,
Hold fast the mortall Sword: and like good men,
Your Face, my Thane, is as a Booke, where men
  Wife. Why, the honest men
are Lyars and Swearers enow, to beate the honest men,
Sirrha, a word with you: Attend those men
Listning their feare, I could not say Amen,
   Mac. But wherefore could not I pronounce Amen?
   Rosse. Sir, Amen
Of the Imperiall Theame. I thanke you Gentlemen:
But no more sights. Where are these Gentlemen?
Vpon her skinnie Lips: you should be Women,
A Cry within of Women.
And make vs euen with you. My Thanes and Kinsmen
He is about it, the Doores are open:
   Doct. You see her eyes are open
   Macd. And all my Children?
He wants the naturall touch. For the poore Wren
   1 Powre in Sowes blood, that hath eaten
Her nine Farrow: Greaze that's sweaten
My dull Braine was wrought with things forgotten.
   La. If he had beene forgotten,
I haue seene him do: How he solicites heauen
There's Husbandry in Heauen,
   Malc. Mercifull Heauen:
enough for Gods sake, yet could not equiuocate to Heauen:
For where there is aduantage to be giuen,
But now I am cabin'd, crib'd, confin'd, bound in
thus washing her hands: I haue knowne her continue in
Inchanting all that you put in.
Then Summer-seeming Lust: and it hath bin
Hath borne his Faculties so meeke; hath bin
The Pitfall, nor the Gin
I pull in Resolution, and begin
   Macb. Ile call vpon you straight: abide within,
   Macb. 'Tis better thee without, then he within.
Knocke within.
Enter a Porter. Knocking within.
Drum within.
   1. I come, Gray-Malkin
O worthyest Cousin,
   Macb. Ile put it on:
it makes him, and it marres him; it sets him on,
That were most precious to me: Did heauen looke on,
   Lady. Come on:
   Cath. Well, march we on,
Attend the true euent, and put we on
And wish th' estate o'th' world were now vndon.
Confess'd his Treasons, implor'd your Highnesse Pardon,
In an Imperiall charge. But I shall craue your pardon:
But make amends now: Get you gon,
You shall offend him, and extend his Passion,
   Mal. Macduff, this Noble passion
Shall draw him on to his Confusion.
him; makes him stand too, and not stand too: in conclusion,
As by the strength of their illusion,
A Dagger of the Minde, a false Creation,
It were done quickly: If th' Assassination
  Doct. I my good Lord: your Royall Preparation
Would haue inform'd for preparation
The rest, that are within the note of expectation,
   Cap. As whence the Sunne 'gins his reflection,
You greet with present Grace, and great prediction
Craues composition:
Vpon the foot of Motion
If good? why doe I yeeld to that suggestion,
Which smoak'd with bloody execution
Ile come to you anon
seene her rise from her bed, throw her Night-Gown vppon
Let vs toward the King: thinke vpon
What cannot you and I performe vpon
Lo you, heere she comes: This is her very guise, and vpon
We will establish our Estate vpon
Th' vnguarded Duncan? What not put vpon
For th' Ingredience of our Cawdron
Adde thereto a Tigers Chawdron,
And at the pit of Acheron
So runnes against all reason
Shall be a Fume, and the Receit of Reason
the Scales against eyther Scale, who committed Treason
Ring the Alarum Bell: Murther, and Treason,
   Macb. How say'st thou that Macduff denies his person
Treason ha's done his worst: nor Steele, nor Poyson,
Seyton?
Enter Seyton.
Or the Hare, the Lyon:
I 'ginne to be a-weary of the Sun,
  Macb. Thou art too like the Spirit of Banquo: Down:
  Mes. Blesse you faire Dame: I am not to you known,
What is't you do?
Spightfull, and wrathfull, who (as others do)
Shall take vpon's what else remaines to do,
And little is to do
In such an Honor nam'd: What's more to do,
   1 Round about the Caldron go:
I would applaud thee to the very Eccho,
it, when none can call our powre to accompt: yet who
   Macd. And I must be from thence? My wife kil'd too?
Their Candles are all out: take thee that too.
   Macd. My Children too?
   Doct. Go too, go too:
Heauen forgiue him too
Why what care I, if thou canst nod, speake too.
Was not that Nobly done? I, and wisely too:
  Rosse. Well too
Whose hearts are absent too
Is not thy Master with him? who, wer't so,
No Sonne of mine succeeding: if't be so,
   Son. And be all Traitors, that do so
   Macd. I shall do so:
   Macb. Accursed be that tongue that tels mee so;
   Doct. Euen so?
   Macb. I did so:
   Rosse. They did so:
And points at them for his. What? is this so?
Yet Grace must still looke so
  Macb. He does: he did appoint so
   Mes. Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so:
And say, it is not so.
   Macb. And Thane of Cawdor too: went it not so?
   Macd. Wherefore did you so?
That you are so
before, these weyward Sisters saluted me, and referr'd me to
Enter Banquo.
Enter Banquo.
Say, Thus did Banquo
Exit Banquo.
Exit Banquo.
To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
The great Doomes Image: Malcolme, Banquo,
Enter Macbeth and Banquo.
So all haile Macbeth, and Banquo
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo,
When we haue mark'd with blood those sleepie two
   Macb. The Prince of Cumberland: that is a step,
Industrious Souldiership
Till Famine and the Ague eate them vp:
Thriftlesse Ambition, that will rauen vp
Your Matrons, and your Maides, could not fill vp
  Macb. I am settled, and bend vp
Peace, the Charme's wound vp.
Confound and swallow Nauigation vp:
  La. He has almost supt: why haue you left the chamber?
   Macb. Hearke, who lyes i'th' second Chamber?
Retyre we to our Chamber:
  Macb. Sweet Remembrancer:
Stand aye accursed in the Kalender.
And sleepe in spight of Thunder.
According to our order
Broke the good meeting, with most admir'd disorder
Our seperated fortune shall keepe vs both the safer:
And heere from gracious England haue I offer
Both the Worlds suffer,
The arm'd Rhinoceros, or th' Hircan Tiger,
Her Husband's to Aleppo gone, Master o'th' Tiger:
Enter a Messenger.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter Messenger.
Exit Messenger.
Exit Messenger
   Rosse. I am so much a Foole, should I stay longer
I dare abide no longer.
God, God forgiue vs all. Looke after her,
  Gent. That Sir, which I will not report after her
How wilt thou do for a Father?
But how wilt thou do for a Father?
haue a new Father
And do's blaspheme his breed? Thy Royall Father
   Rosse. Farewell, Father
But that my selfe should be the Roote, and Father
   Rosse. Ha, good Father,
Which was to my beleefe witnest the rather,
Cleane from my Hand? no: this my Hand will rather
   Macd. Let vs rather
   Lady. There are two lodg'd together
Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
And meet i'th' Hall together
As two spent Swimmers, that doe cling together,
Of Natures Germaine, tumble altogether,
Then wishest should be vndone. High thee hither,
   Macd. My euer gentle Cozen, welcome hither
   King. Welcome hither:
   Rosse. Well, I will thither
And one cry'd Murther, that they did wake each other:
   Old man. 'Tis said, they eate each other
   Macb. One cry'd God blesse vs, and Amen the other,
   1. I my selfe haue all the other,
  Lady. Who dares receiue it other,
But as a thing of Custome: 'Tis no other,
In this slumbry agitation, besides her walking, and other
Our free Hearts each to other
And falles on th' other.
   Son. Why should I Mother?
  Son. As Birds do Mother
  Son. He ha's kill'd me Mother,
   Son. Was my Father a Traitor, Mother?
   3. And I another
   1.Murth. And I another,
   1 He will not be commanded: heere's another
   Cath. Who knowes if Donalbane be with his brother?
The fits o'th' Season. I dare not speake much further,
Can touch him further
   Macb. We will speake further,
place is too cold for Hell. Ile Deuill-Porter it no further:
Pale Heccats Offrings: and wither'd Murther,
Exit crying Murther.
  Rosse. That of an houres age, doth hisse the speaker,
   Banq. This Guest of Summer,
Sauagely slaughter'd: To relate the manner
That takes the Reason Prisoner?
Which outwardly ye shew? My Noble Partner
Enter Lady, with a Taper.
Exit Murderer.
Enter first Murtherer.
   1. Lesser than Macbeth, and greater
So braine-sickly of things: Goe get some Water,
   Macb. She should haue dy'de heereafter;
Greater then both, by the all-haile hereafter,
Our eldest, Malcolme, whom we name hereafter,
   3. All haile Macbeth, that shalt be King hereafter
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Anon, anon, I pray you remember the Porter.
  1. Where hast thou beene, Sister?
   Macb. and Lenox. What's the matter?
'Twixt this, and Supper. Goe not my Horse the better,
Enter Macbeths Wife alone with a Letter.
More suffer, and more sundry wayes then euer,
Yours for euer?
   Rosse. Let not your eares dispise my tongue for euer,
   La. Your Seruants euer,
Can tell so much: Shall Banquo's issue euer
   Lady. O neuer,
Your Hand, your Tongue: looke like th' innocent flower,
  Macb. Tell me, thou vnknowne power
   3 Wee'l answer
That clogges me with this Answer
   Rosse. Would I could answer
Life's but a walking Shadow, a poore Player,
   2. Not so happy, yet much happyer
   Lenox. Heere is a place reseru'd Sir
   Macb. Well, say sir
   Gent. Pray God it be sir
   Macb. To night we hold a solemne Supper sir,
   Fleance. I take't, 'tis later, Sir
   La. Did you send to him Sir?
   Mur. Most Royall Sir
   Lenox. Good morrow, Noble Sir
  Ser. Souldiers Sir
   Rosse. His absence (Sir)
   King. My worthy Cawdor
Great Glamys, worthy Cawdor,
Commencing in a Truth? I am Thane of Cawdor.
He bad me, from him, call thee Thane of Cawdor:
   2. All haile Macbeth, haile to thee Thane of Cawdor
   King. Where's the Thane of Cawdor?
   Macb. Glamys, and Thane of Cawdor:
  King. Is execution done on Cawdor?
Glamis hath murther'd Sleepe, and therefore Cawdor
Poore Birds they are not set for:
Giue me my Armor
Hang those that talke of Feare. Giue me mine Armor:
And do not know our selues: when we hold Rumor
   Rosse. And for an earnest of a greater Honor,
And Honor
  Macd. O horror, horror, horror,
oh come in, Equiuocator.
Enter a Doctor.
How do's your Patient, Doctor?
   Gent. Good night good Doctor.
  Mal. I thanke you Doctor
   Mur. He's a Traitor
   Son. What is a Traitor?
   Wife. Euery one that do's so, is a Traitor,
Assisted by that most disloyall Traytor,
I haue begun to plant thee, and will labour
  Macb. Thou loosest labour
He hath a Wisdome, that doth guide his Valour,
To be the same in thine owne Act, and Valour,
Like Syllable of Dolour
Which I haue heauily borne, there ran a Rumour
   Macb. Giue me your fauour:
Come, come, come, come, giue me your hand: What's
Winne vs with honest Trifles, to betray's
  Banq. The Earth hath bubbles, as the Water ha's,
  La. Know you not, he ha's?
  Ban. I, my good Lord: our time does call vpon's
   Lady. Woe, alas:
Accounted dangerous folly. Why then (alas)
  Wife. I, that he was
Though Castles topple on their Warders heads:
dyed holily in their beds
   Doct. Foule whisp'rings are abroad: vnnaturall deeds
To dew the Soueraigne Flower, and drowne the Weeds:
Looke how she rubbes her hands
His secret Murthers sticking on his hands,
As they had seene me with these Hangmans hands:
Who (as 'tis thought) by selfe and violent hands,
I should cut off the Nobles for their Lands,
Behold where stands
Descends.
He Descends.
Do not muse at me my most worthy Friends,
Come friends.
As Honor, Loue, Obedience, Troopes of Friends,
   La. Pronounce it for me Sir, to all our Friends,
That speake my salutation in their minds:
Strike heauen on the face, that it resounds
   King. So well thy words become thee, as thy wounds,
Except they meant to bathe in reeking Wounds,
Exit Lords.
Exeunt. Lords.
Senit sounded. Enter Macbeth as King, Lady Lenox, Rosse, Lords,
For a few words
   Macd. I haue no words,
This comfort with the like. But I haue words
   Wife. Wisedom? to leaue his wife, to leaue his Babes,
   Rosse. Your Castle is surpriz'd: your Wife, and Babes
And make my seated Heart knock at my Ribbes,
  2 By the pricking of my Thumbes,
Why doe you dresse me in borrowed Robes?
What are these faces?
   Mal. But I haue none. The King-becoming Graces,
And sent forth great Largesse to your Offices.
Where-euer, in your sightlesse substances,
Mine Eyes are made the fooles o'th' other Sences,
Vnto our gentle sences
That stay his Cure: their malady conuinces
The newes of thy successe: and when he reades
   Lenox. Or so much as it needes,
  Mur. I, my good Lord: safe in a ditch he bides,
Do breed vnnaturall troubles: infected mindes
The Wine of Life is drawne, and the meere Lees
A third, is like the former. Filthy Hagges,
   Sey. The time approaches,
  Lenox. My former Speeches,
Now haue you consider'd of my speeches:
To gayne the timely Inne, and neere approches
Enter Hecat, and the other three Witches.
Thunder and Lightning. Enter three Witches.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches.
with Boughes.
On mine owne sword? whiles I see liues, the gashes
Hoboyes. Torches. Enter a Sewer, and diuers Seruants with Dishes
   1 Say, if th'hadst rather heare it from our mouthes,
As she is troubled with thicke-comming Fancies
   Cath. Great Dunsinane he strongly Fortifies:
That I may tell pale-hearted Feare, it lies;
For those of old, and the late Dignities,
Command vpon me, to the which my duties
Your Highnesse part, is to receiue our Duties:
That my keene Knife see not the Wound it makes,
Hanging a golden stampe about their neckes,
Open Lockes, who euer knockes.
And keepe the naturall Rubie of your Cheekes,
He findes thee in the stout Norweyan Rankes,
Gentle my Lord, sleeke o're your rugged Lookes,
Lecherie, Sir, it prouokes, and vnprouokes: it prouokes
Compell'd these skipping Kernes to trust their heeles,
  Cap. Yes, as Sparrowes, Eagles;
Where we are, there's Daggers in mens smiles;
And all our yesterdayes, haue lighted Fooles
Doe swarme vpon him) from the Westerne Isles
  Doct. I Sir: there are a crew of wretched Soules
His Wife, his Babes, and all vnfortunate Soules
In the affliction of these terrible Dreames,
Our Honors in these flattering streames,
Are made, not mark'd: Where violent sorrow seemes
Haue pluckt my Nipple from his Bonelesse Gummes,
   Doct. Heark, she speaks, I will set downe what comes
Something wicked this way comes:
Our knocking ha's awak'd him: here he comes
And I will put that Businesse in your Bosomes,
I cannot strike at wretched Kernes, whose armes
The close contriuer of all harmes,
With my confinelesse harmes
And I the Mistris of your Charmes,
It is the bloody Businesse, which informes
   La. Heere's the smell of the blood still: all the perfumes
   Macd. What's the Disease he meanes?
In drops of sorrow. Sonnes, Kinsmen, Thanes,
Shall ere haue power vpon thee. Then fly false Thanes,
And euery one shall share i'th' gaines:
Soundly inuite him) his two Chamberlaines
  Hec. O well done: I commend your paines,
The greatest is behinde. Thankes for your paines.
How you shall bid God-eyld vs for your paines,
Exeunt. omnes
Flourish. Exeunt Omnes.
Malcolme, and Donalbaine the Kings two Sonnes
Be not found heere: Hence with your little ones
   Macd. He ha's no Children. All my pretty ones?
And Guardian of their Bones
On all deseruers. From hence to Envernes,
With twenty mortall murthers on their crownes,
That would make good of bad, and Friends of Foes.
   Malc. We haue met with Foes
   Macd. I haue lost my Hopes
Which would be fear'd. 'Tis much he dares,
Against the vse of Nature? Present Feares
   Macb. I haue almost forgot the taste of Feares:
   La. Thinke of this good Peeres
Had I as many Sonnes, as I haue haires,
For in my way it lyes. Starres hide your fires,
Let not Light see my black and deepe desires:
As Hounds, and Greyhounds, Mungrels, Spaniels, Curres,
The meere dispaire of Surgery, he cures,
And mingle with the English Epicures,
   Macd. Let our iust Censures
Wee'ld iumpe the life to come. But in these Cases,
  Macb. To morrow, as he purposes
   Rosse. And Duncans Horses,
   3. Hearke, I heare Horses
To doffe their dire distresses
Reuenges burne in them: for their deere causes
The Curtain'd sleepe: Witchcraft celebrates
Heap'd vp to them, we rest your Ermites
Shall be the Mawes of Kytes
To the succeeding Royalty he leaues
Against the Churches: Though the yesty Waues
   Mal. Why doe we hold our tongues,
This Tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
Words to the heat of deedes too cold breath giues.
Which now sutes with it. Whiles I threat, he liues:
Thou know'st, that Banquo and his Fleans liues
Is there scarse ask'd for who, and good mens liues
  Macb. The Thane of Cawdor liues:
But how, of Cawdor? the Thane of Cawdor liues
   1.Murth. Though our Liues-
Free from our Feasts, and Banquets bloody kniues;
I will aduise you where to plant your selues,
Wanton in fulnesse, seeke to hide themselues
As will to Greatnesse dedicate themselues,
Before we reckon with your seuerall loues,
Take any shape but that, and my firme Nerues
So cleere in his great Office, that his Vertues
He brings great newes,
How now? What Newes?
a Souldier, and affear'd? what need we feare? who knowes
He is Noble, Wise, Iudicious, and best knowes
What man, ne're pull your hat vpon your browes:
   Mal. With this, there growes
New Widdowes howle, new Orphans cry, new sorowes
   Lenox. What a haste lookes through his eyes?
   Macd. O I could play the woman with mine eyes,
What Hands are here? hah: they pluck out mine Eyes.
Why do you shew me this? - A fourth? Start eyes!
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
  Wife. Why one that sweares, and lyes
   Wife. What with Wormes, and Flyes?
Hoboyes
   King. My plenteous Ioyes,
Thould'st haue, great Glamys, that which cryes,
Aroynt thee, Witch, the rumpe-fed Ronyon cryes.
  Macb. How now you secret, black, & midnight Hags?
What is your tidings?
  Rosse. When I came hither to transport the Tydings
And none serue with him, but constrained things,
And Drinke, Sir, is a great prouoker of three things
  Macb. Your Children shall be Kings
Doe you not hope your Children shall be Kings,
They hayl'd him Father to a Line of Kings.
To make them Kings, the Seedes of Banquo Kings.
Are lesse then horrible Imaginings:
A Bell rings.
Hath trifled former knowings
For goodnesse dare not check thee: wear y thy wrongs,
The Instruments of Darknesse tell vs Truths,
Then such a murther is
   Wife. Father'd he is,
Who I my selfe struck downe: and thence it is,
   Malc. But Macbeth is.
the comming on of time, with haile King that shalt be. This
Why sinkes that Caldron? & what noise is this?
Of goodly thousands. But for all this,
   Macb. I will be satisfied. Deny me this,
  Macb. Which of you haue done this?
As you haue done to this
   Lady. You must leaue this
Knock, Knock. Neuer at quiet: What are you? but this
By Sinells death, I know I am Thane of Glamis,
  1. All haile Macbeth, haile to thee Thane of Glamis
And so I doe commend you to their backs.
As Cannons ouer-charg'd with double Cracks,
To giue thee from our Royall Master thanks,
  Macb. What ere thou art, for thy good caution, thanks
  Macb. See they encounter thee with their harts thanks
  Macb. Hang out our Banners on the outward walls,
The shard-borne Beetle, with his drowsie hums,
Exit. Alarums.
Exeunt. fighting. Alarums.
What 'twere to kill a Father: So should Fleans.
Yet hee's good that did the like for Fleans:
Which keepes me pale. Light thickens,
and it takes him off; it perswades him, and dis-heartens
And Braggart with my tongue. But gentle Heauens,
They smack of Honor both: Goe get him Surgeons.
   Macd. Not in the Legions
His Cloyster'd flight, ere to black Heccats summons
For sundry weightie Reasons
Confronted him with selfe-comparisons,
Expire before the Flowers in their Caps,
Nose of Turke, and Tartars lips:
Till he vnseam'd him from the Naue toth' Chops,
Norway himselfe, with terrible numbers,
Shipwracking Stormes, and direfull Thunders:
Steep'd in the Colours of their Trade; their Daggers
Of his owne Chamber, and vs'd their very Daggers,
The meanes that makes vs Strangers
Soldiers.
Rosse, Thanes, & Soldiers.
Their cruell Parricide, filling their hearers
Enter three Murtherers.
Enter Murtherers.
For Ruines wastfull entrance: there the Murtherers,
Enter Seruant, and two Murtherers.
In my Voluptuousnesse: Your Wiues, your Daughters,
Or from our Masters
Producing forth the cruell Ministers
And take my Milke for Gall, you murth'ring Ministers,
Mark Anthonies was by Caesar. He chid the Sisters,
I dreamt last Night of the three weyward Sisters:
   Macb. Saw you the Weyard Sisters?
(And betimes I will) to the weyard Sisters.
   2. He needes not our mistrust, since he deliuers
I stood, and heard them: But they did say their Prayers,
Do faithfull Homage, and receiue free Honors,
Let not my Iealousies, be your Dishonors,
As life were in't. I haue supt full with horrors,
The Sacred Store-house of his Predecessors,
But cruell are the times, when we are Traitors
Our feares do make vs Traitors
Were they not forc'd with those that should be ours,
That most may clayme this argument for ours?
Enter Macbeth, Seyton, & Souldiers, with Drum and Colours.
The day almost it selfe professes yours,
   Mac. Thou art the best o'th' Cut-throats,
Where I did finde my doubts.
To their deafe pillowes will discharge their Secrets:
With Snores. I haue drugg'd their Possets,
And shew the best of our delights.
And that distill'd by Magicke slights,
Giue to our Tables meate, sleepe to our Nights:
Come Sisters, cheere we vp his sprights,
As from your Graues rise vp, and walke like Sprights,
Shall raise such Artificiall Sprights,
When now I thinke you can behold such sights,
Mercifull Powers, restraine in me the cursed thoughts
Wip'd the blacke Scruples, reconcil'd my thoughts
Direnesse familiar to my slaughterous thoughts
So poorely in your thoughts
Haue but hit your Thoughts
   Macb. Time, thou anticipat'st my dread exploits:
Vnder my Battlements. Come you Spirits,
attendants,
Attendants.
Attendants.
Attendants.
Enter Macbeth, Doctor, and Attendants.
Macduff, Rosse, Angus, and Attendants.
And fix'd his Head vpon our Battlements
Those that we bury, backe; our Monuments
Of dyre Combustion, and confus'd Euents,
And make our Faces Vizards to our Hearts,
Led you to Duncan. O, these flawes and starts
Th' effect, and hit. Come to my Womans Brests,
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable Crests,
That euery minute of his being, thrusts
Enter Rosse and Angus.
Enter Rosse and Angus.
Enter Macbeth, Banquo, Rosse, and Angus.
   Lady. Sit worthy Friends: my Lord is often thus,
To be thus, is nothing, but to be safely thus
All mortall Consequences, haue pronounc'd me thus:
  Macb. Who can be wise, amaz'd, temp'rate, & furious,
   Macd. I am not treacherous
(Which still hath been both graue, and prosperous)
Some say, the Earth was Feuorous,
Who cannot want the thought, how monstrous
That strike beside vs
To know it further. Feares and scruples shake vs:
Get on your Night-Gowne, least occasion call vs,
Performe what you command vs
The Victorie fell on vs
Each drop of vs
Erre in report of vs
Grapples you to the heart; and loue of vs,
   Macb. Bring them before vs.
   Seyw. What wood is this before vs?
When they did say God blesse vs
   1.Murth. You made it knowne to vs
   1. Then stand with vs:
  1. But who did bid thee ioyne with vs?
Not i'th' worst ranke of Manhood, say't,
To mend it, or be rid on't
My Father as he slept, I had don't.
  Lenox. Those of his Chamber, as it seem'd, had don't:
But know not how to doo't
That they haue don't?
Napkins enow about you, here you'le sweat for't.
Our setting downe befor't
  Macd. Be not a niggard of your speech: How gos't?
  Macb. You are, and doe not know't:
To th' amazement of mine eyes that look'd vpon't.
   1. Stand too't
  All. Listen, but speake not too't
   Doct. A great perturbation in Nature, to receyue at
Thunder. Enter the three Witches, meeting Hecat.
Each corporall Agent to this terrible Feat.
To catch the neerest way. Thou would'st be great,
  King. This Castle hath a pleasant seat,
And hath beene from his youth. Pray you keepe Seat,
And in his Royaltie of Nature reignes that
   Doct. Do you marke that?
I had thought to haue let in some of all Professions, that
  Macb. I, and a bold one, that dare looke on that
   Macb. Cure of that:
   Macb. Thankes for that:
(Worthie to be a Rebell, for to that
Which should be thine, or his: silenc'd with that,
As thou art in desire? Would'st thou haue that
What will these hands ne're be cleane? No more o'that
I had most need of Blessing, and Amen stuck in my throat
   Rosse. Your son my Lord, ha's paid a souldiers debt,
Thou seest the Heauens, as troubled with mans Act,
As happy Prologues to the swelling Act
To kill their gracious Father? Damned Fact,
Our will became the seruant to defect,
Though in your state of Honor I am perfect;
I had else beene perfect;
Which in his Death were perfect
First, as I am his Kinsman, and his Subiect,
The Thane of Cawdor, began a dismall Conflict,
Oftner vpon her knees, then on her feet,
To kisse the ground before young Malcolmes feet,
That suffer in exposure; let vs meet,
   Macb. I do forget:
  Wife. Why I can buy me twenty at any Market
For strangers to my Nature. I am yet
   Seyt. 'Tis not needed yet
  Ang. Who was the Thane, liues yet,
  Macb. Not yet
And fall of many Kings. But feare not yet
But shift away: there's warrant in that Theft,
Which steales it selfe, when there's no mercie left.
And mouncht, & mouncht, and mouncht:
How it did greeue Macbeth? Did he not straight
Against the vndivulg'd pretence, I fight
The Tyrants people, on both sides do fight,
Though you vntye the Windes, and let them fight
Would create Soldiours, make our women fight,
(The most diminitiue of Birds) will fight,
Let vs be beaten, if we cannot fight
  2. A Light, a Light
   Doct. How came she by that light?
  3. Who did strike out the Light?
The Deuill to his Fellow, and delight
It is concluded: Banquo, thy Soules flight,
As little is the Wisedome, where the flight
And all things else, that might
   Lenox. And that well might
Adieu, till you returne at Night.
You wait on Natures Mischiefe. Come thick Night,
   Macb. 'Twas a rough Night
The secret'st man of Blood. What is the night?
I must become a borrower of the Night,
Till thou applaud the deed: Come, seeling Night,
The obscure Bird clamor'd the liue-long Night.
Houres dreadfull, and things strange: but this sore Night
   Macd. I beleeue, Drinke gaue thee the Lye last Night
Do we but finde the Tyrants power to night,
  Seruant. I, Madame, but returnes againe to Night
The moment on't, for't must be done to Night,
   Ban. It will be Rayne to Night
Duncan comes here to Night
  Mess. The King comes here to Night
We are your guest to night
Be bright and Iouiall among your Guests to Night
If it finde Heauen, must finde it out to Night.
The fatall Bell-man, which giues the stern'st good-night.
Question enrages him: at once, goodnight.
And still keepe eyes vpon her: So goodnight,
There would be hands vplifted in my right:
Onely to harrold thee into his sight,
Thy personall Venture in the Rebels sight,
My minde she ha's mated, and amaz'd my sight.
With bare-fac'd power sweepe him from my sight,
   Lady. A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight
   Mac. This is a sorry sight
  Macd. Approch the Chamber, and destroy your sight
And yet are on't? Liue you, or are you aught
So great a day as this is cheapely bought
He hath Honour'd me of late, and I haue bought
Who like a good and hardie Souldier fought
In the vnshrinking station where he fought,
The fit is momentary, vpon a thought
   Lady. These deeds must not be thought
And something from the Pallace: alwayes thought,
   1 He knowes thy thought:
I look'd toward Byrnane, and anon me thought
Heare his speech, but say thou nought
Which else should free haue wrought
   Macb. We haue scorch'd the Snake, not kill'd it:
   Macd. Humh: I guesse at it
   Lady. Thou'rt mad to say it.
her, vnlocke her Closset, take foorth paper, folde it,
Conuert to anger: blunt not the heart, enrage it
   Macb. Throw Physicke to the Dogs, Ile none of it.
  Macb. Thou'lt be affraid to heare it
When liuing Light should kisse it?
A fellow to it.
As thou didst leaue it
Keepe it not from me, quickly let me haue it
Thus thou must doe, if thou haue it;
Meeting were bare without it.
Shake off this Downey sleepe, Deaths counterfeit,
For euer knit
Painted vpon a pole, and vnder-writ,
   Lenox. May't please your Highnesse sit
   Wife. Thou speak'st withall thy wit,
   Macb. Ile fight, till from my bones, my flesh be hackt.
He was a Gentleman, on whom I built
His spungie Officers? who shall beare the guilt
For it must seeme their Guilt.
Both more and lesse haue giuen him the Reuolt,
As seemeth by his plight, of the Reuolt
Began a fresh assault
   Mal. This is the Serieant,
  King. True worthy Banquo: he is full so valiant,
Doe you finde your patience so predominant,
   Ment. What do's the Tyrant
Heere may you see the Tyrant
   Syw. We learne no other, but the confident Tyrant
The future in the instant
I had liu'd a blessed time: for from this instant,
Enter Macbeths Lady, and a Seruant.
Enter Seruant.
Exit Seruant.
Exit Seruant.
  Doct. Therein the Patient
Be like our warranted Quarrell. Why are you silent?
Vnlesse the deed go with it. From this moment,
That the proportion both of thanks, and payment,
  Lady. Nought's had, all's spent.
   Ang. Wee are sent,
Were the grac'd person of our Banquo present:
   Macb. If you shall cleaue to my consent,
And shut vp in measurelesse content
Where our desire is got without content:
I cannot tell: but I am faint,
  Rosse. I, on the Front
Cut short all intermission: Front to Front,
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Flourish. Exeunt.
But let the frame of things dis-ioynt,
Sweltred Venom sleeping got,
   Malc. This murtherous Shaft that's shot,
His flight was madnesse: when our Actions do not,
And more I begge not.
And nothing is, but what is not
   Malc. My Countryman: but yet I know him not
That he seemes wrapt withall: to me you speake not.
   Ban. My Lord, I will not
And say, which Graine will grow, and which will not,
You haue knowne what you should not
In his Countreyes wracke, I know not:
   Rosse. You know not
  Macd. Why see you not?
Looke on't againe, I dare not
Which the poore heart would faine deny, and dare not.
And bid my will auouch it; yet I must not,
From whence himselfe do's flye? He loues vs not,
Almost affraid to know it selfe. It cannot
And the rich East to boot
   Macb. I wish your Horses swift, and sure of foot:
For that I saw the Tyrants Power a-foot.
Or haue we eaten on the insane Root,
Boyle thou first i'th' charmed pot
   Lad. Yet heere's a spot
   Banq. Looke how our Partner's rapt
Showghes, Water-Rugs, and Demy-Wolues are clipt
Vntimely ript
Haue theirs, themselues, and what is theirs in compt,
Is stopt, the very Source of it is stopt
   King. There's no Art,
  Macd. Haile King, for so thou art.
Or shew the glory of our Art?
Throbs to know one thing: Tell me, if your Art
That had a heart to loue; and in that heart,
Which weighes vpon the heart?
And hold thee to my Heart
   Macb. Take thy face hence. Seyton, I am sick at hart,
   All. Shew his Eyes, and greeue his Hart,
To time, and mortall Custome. Yet my Hart
Was neuer call'd to beare my part,
But in it shares some woe, though the maine part
Of that darke houre: resolue your selues apart,
Come like shadowes, so depart.
His pester'd Senses to recoyle, and start,
And so God be with him. Here comes newer comfort.
   Malc. Bee't their comfort
It would be my disgrace, and your discomfort.
  King. What bloody man is that? he can report,
All which we pine for now. And this report
  Lady. Is Banquo gone from Court?
Alreadie are i'th' Court
Ile proue the lye thou speak'st.
Both sides are euen: heere Ile sit i'th' mid'st,
   Wife. Poore pratler, how thou talk'st?
I would thou could'st.
I would not be the Villaine that thou think'st,
Come sir, dispatch. If thou could'st Doctor, cast
Chiefe nourisher in Life's Feast
It had bene as a gap in our great Feast,
   Macb. Faile not our Feast
Euen like the deed that's done: On Tuesday last,
perceiue no truth in your report. When was it shee last
Know, that it was he, in the times past,
  Rosse. No minde that's honest
That keepe her from her rest
Due to some single brest?
Hath banish'd me from Scotland. O my Brest,
  Macb. Heere's our chiefe Guest
Will pleade like Angels, Trumpet-tongu'd against
Strong both against the Deed: Then, as his Host,
And play the humble Host:
Enter Ghost.
Though his Barke cannot be lost,
And shew vs to be Watchers: be not lost
   2. We haue lost
Within this houre, at most,
How you were borne in hand, how crost:
Yet it shall be Tempest-tost.
More potent then the first.
Thou other Gold-bound-brow, is like the first:
Would he were heere: to all, and him we thirst,
By his owne Interdiction stands accust,
But mine owne Safeties: you may be rightly iust,
To the direction iust
The Prince of Cumberland: which Honor must
To our owne lips. Hee's heere in double trust;
An absolute Trust.
Rather then so, come Fate into the Lyst,
To feeling, as to sight? or art thou but
   Gent. I, but their sense are shut
As if it felt with Scotland, and yell'd out
Then tearmes can giue thee out.
That Christendome giues out
Comes toward Dunsinane. Arme, Arme, and out,
Turn'd wilde in nature, broke their stalls, flong out,
Of many worthy Fellowes, that were out,
   Banq. Were such things here, as we doe speake about?
   1. His Horses goe about
Thus doe goe, about, about,
Thy very stones prate of my where-about,
Art not without Ambition, but without
Must be prouided for: and you shall put
   Macd. Well may you see things wel done there: Adieu
   3. Sister, where thou?
I pray you?
Run away I pray you.
Without leaue-taking. I pray you,
Cousins, a word, I pray you
Behold, looke, loe, how say you:
   Macb. So shall I Loue, and so I pray be you:
   Macb. Came they not by you?
Which still we thanke as Loue. Herein I teach you,
Speake, I charge you.
  Macb. Your Spirits shine through you.
  Son. If he were dead, youl'd weepe for him: if you
Your Noble Friends do lacke you
To what I aske you
I speake not as in absolute feare of you:
To adde the death of you
Each way, and moue. I take my leaue of you:
   Macb. The Rest is Labor, which is not vs'd for you:
Loues for his owne ends, not for you.
When 'tis, it shall make Honor for you
Blessing vpon you
   Mac. Speake if you can: what are you?
  Ser. The English Force, so please you
And binde vs further to you
   Banq. Thankes Sir: the like to you.
   Macd. I know this is a ioyfull trouble to you:
While then, God be with you.
Goes Fleance with you?
Past in probation with you:
Which is too nie your person. Heauen preserue you,
As this which now I draw.
I should report that which I say I saw,
  1 Shew
   2 Shew
   3 Shew
Liuer of Blaspheming Iew,
Least our old Robes sit easier then our new
Gall of Goate, and Slippes of Yew,
The Baby of a Girle. Hence horrible shadow,
And bear't before him, thereby shall we shadow
Thy Selfe and Office deaftly show.
Away, and mock the time with fairest show,
   All. Come high or low:
And the very Ports they blow,
With his surcease, Successe: that but this blow
That swiftest Wing of Recompence is slow,
   Doct. What is it she do's now?
  Lady. Now
I haue done no harme. But I remember now
Fell slaughter on their soules: Heauen rest them now
And many vnruffe youths, that euen now
The sinne of my Ingratitude euen now
The firstlings of my hand. And euen now
Deale betweene thee and me; For euen now
  Lad. The Thane of Fife, had a wife: where is she now?
And went further, which is now
How goes the world Sir, now?
This ignorant present, and I feele now
Will cheere me euer, or dis-eate me now.
They haue made themselues, and that their fitnesse now
  Mal. It is my selfe I meane: in whom I know
Was he not borne of woman? The Spirits that know
All the Quarters that they know,
And an eternall Curse fall on you: Let me know.
Do's vnmake you. I haue giuen Sucke, and know
And you whose places are the nearest, know,
More shall they speake: for now I am bent to know
False Face must hide what the false Heart doth know.
That will with due decision make vs know
   Banq. There if I grow,
From the Murderers Gibbet, throw
In the poysond Entrailes throw
With strange inuention. But of that to morrow,
In this dayes Councell: but wee'le take to morrow.
I keepe a Seruant Feed. I will to morrow
To morrow, and to morrow, and to morrow,
No teeth for th' present. Get thee gone, to morrow
Plucke from the Memory a rooted Sorrow,
   Mal. Nor our strong Sorrow
  Rosse. I, and brought off the field: your cause of sorrow
   Mal. Hee's worth more sorrow,
Enter Lenox.
Enter Macduff, and Lenox.
Exeunt. Macbeth and Lenox.
Drum and Colours. Enter Menteth, Cathnes, Angus, Lenox,
Banquo, Lenox,
   Ross. Alas the day,
The Night is long, that neuer findes the Day.
Threatens his bloody Stage: byth' Clock 'tis Day,
Skarfe vp the tender Eye of pittifull Day,
In viewing o're the rest o'th' selfe-same day,
The West yet glimmers with some streakes of Day.
Sleepe shall neyther Night nor Day
Time, and the Houre, runs through the roughest Day
Creepes in this petty pace from day to day,
  Lenox. Goes the King hence to day?
Ile dreyne him drie as Hay:
by being ignorant of what Greatnesse is promis'd thee. Lay
   Macb. Come what come may,
Put on their Instruments: Receiue what cheere you may,
To take vpon you what is yours: you may
More is thy due, then more then all can pay
Our duties, did his welcome pay.
At no time broke my Faith, would not betray
To heare the men deny't. So that I say,
That should applaud againe. Pull't off I say,
Which can interpret farther: Onely I say
her say?
  Macb. It will haue blood they say:
That this great King may kindly say,
Might haue beene mine: onely I haue left to say,
  1. Was't not the way?
Hath not yet lighted: and our safest way,
Vpon this blasted Heath you stop our way
May rush, and seize vs? Let's away,
Whether he was combin'd with those of Norway,
The gallopping of Horse. Who was't came by?
Come go we to the King, our Power is ready,
  Macb. Goe bid thy Mistresse, when my drinke is ready,
Confounds vs: hearke: I lay'd their Daggers ready,
With blood of thine already
Enter Lady.
Enter Lady.
Enter Lady.
Enter Lady.
Bell rings. Enter Lady.
   Macd. Looke to the Lady
   Banq. Looke to the Lady:
Exit Lady.
   Macd. O gentle Lady,
for the dignity of the whole body
Yet I will try the last. Before my body,
   Rosse. Where is Duncans body?
The neere in blood, the neerer bloody
   Mal. I grant him Bloody,
  Son. With what I get I meane, and so do they
   Macd. What concerne they,
Key.
That had he Duncans Sonnes vnder his Key,
That such a hideous Trumpet calls to parley
(Whereto the rather shall his dayes hard Iourney
  Rosse. Alas poore Countrey,
You owe this strange Intelligence, or why
  1 I Sir, all this is so. But why
   La. Out damned spot: out I say. One: Two: Why
   Banq. Very gladly
Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
would not, it were a good signe, that I should quickely
   Macb. Bring forth Men-Children onely:
Not vnaccompanied, inuest him onely,
To pricke the sides of my intent, but onely
   Lady. Consider it not so deepely
I doubt some danger do's approach you neerely.
from her, to satisfie my remembrance the more strongly
Conduct me to mine Host we loue him highly,
The illnesse should attend it. What thou would'st highly,
Thou com'st to vse thy Tongue: thy Story quickly
   Macd. What three things does Drinke especially
  Gent. Why it stood by her: she ha's light by her continually,
   3. Almost a mile: but he does vsually,
   La. What? quite vnmann'd in folly
   Mal. This time goes manly:
  1. Why how now Hecat, you looke angerly?
  Gent. Directly
   Lenox. The Night ha's been vnruly:
Was this vpon my selfe. What I am truly
their Army,
That Vulture in you, to deuoure so many
To grace vs with your Royall Company?
That fled the Snares of watchfull Tyranny,
From thence, the sawce to meate is Ceremony,
  Banq. How goes the Night, Boy?
Then by destruction dwell in doubtfull ioy.
'Tis safer, to be that which we destroy,
Cannot once start me. Wherefore was that cry?
  Lady. I heard the Owle schreame, and the Crickets cry.
Yong fry of Treachery?
The numbers of our Hoast, and make discouery
That two-fold Balles, and trebble Scepters carry.
I heare a knocking at the South entry:
May soone returne to this our suffering Country,
   Macd. Bleed, bleed poore Country,
Or weare it on my Sword; yet my poore Country
Told by an Ideot, full of sound and fury
   Macb. Our selfe will mingle with Society,
It should not stand in thy Posterity,
And you all know, Security
To do worse to you, were fell Cruelty,
Conuey your pleasures in a spacious plenty,
And top of Soueraignty?
Weepe our sad bosomes empty
Attend his Maiesty
   Lords. Thankes to your Maiesty
   Rosse. My deerest Cooz,
