

























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































   1 Appar. Macbeth, Macbeth, Macbeth:
   1 He knowes thy thought:
   1 He will not be commanded: heere's another
   1 Powre in Sowes blood, that hath eaten
   1 Round about the Caldron go:
   1 Say, if th'hadst rather heare it from our mouthes,
   1 Speake
   1. Banquo, and Macbeth, all haile
   1. Hayle
   1. Here I haue a Pilots Thumbe,
   1. His Horses goe about
   1. I come, Gray-Malkin
   1. I my selfe haue all the other,
   1. Lesser than Macbeth, and greater
   1. Let it come downe
   1. Stand too't
   1. Th'art kinde
   1. Then stand with vs:
   1. Well, let's away, and say how much is done.
   1. Where the place?
   1.Murth. And I another,
   1.Murth. Though our Liues-
   1.Murth. You made it knowne to vs
   2 Coole it with a Baboones blood,
   2 Demand
   2 Fillet of a Fenny Snake,
   2 Shew
   2 Thrice, and once the Hedge-Pigge whin'd
   2. All haile Macbeth, haile to thee Thane of Cawdor
   2. Hayle
   2. He needes not our mistrust, since he deliuers
   2. Ile giue thee a Winde
   2. Not so happy, yet much happyer
   2. Shew me, shew me
   2. Then 'tis hee:
   2. We haue lost
   2.Murth. I am one, my Liege,
   2.Murth. We shall, my Lord,
   3 Appar. Be Lyon metled, proud, and take no care:
   3 Harpier cries, 'tis time, 'tis time
   3 Scale of Dragon, Tooth of Wolfe,
   3 Shew
   3 Wee'l answer
   3. 'Tis hee
   3. All haile Macbeth, that shalt be King hereafter
   3. Almost a mile: but he does vsually,
   3. And I another
   3. Hayle
   3. Hearke, I heare Horses
   3. Sister, where thou?
   3. That will be ere the set of Sunne
   3. There to meet with Macbeth
   3. Thou shalt get Kings, though thou be none:
   All. Come high or low:
   All. Double, double, toile and trouble;
   All. Double, double, toyle and trouble,
   All. Double, double, toyle and trouble,
   All. Haile King of Scotland.
   All. Padock calls anon: faire is foule, and foule is faire,
   All. Shew his Eyes, and greeue his Hart,
   All. So all
   All. The weyward Sisters, hand in hand,
   All. Well contented.
   Ang. Neere Byrnan wood
   Ang. Now do's he feele
   Ang. Wee are sent,
   Appar. Be bloody, bold, & resolute:
   Ban. It will be Rayne to Night
   Ban. My Lord, I will not
   Ban. O, Trecherie!
   Banq. All's well.
   Banq. And she goes downe at Twelue
   Banq. At your kind'st leysure
   Banq. Good Sir, why doe you start, and seeme to feare
   Banq. Hold, take my Sword:
   Banq. Let your Highnesse
   Banq. Looke how our Partner's rapt
   Banq. Looke to the Lady:
   Banq. New Honors come vpon him
   Banq. So I lose none,
   Banq. Thankes Sir: the like to you.
   Banq. That trusted home,
   Banq. There if I grow,
   Banq. This Guest of Summer,
   Banq. Very gladly
   Banq. Were such things here, as we doe speake about?
   Banq. What Sir, not yet at rest? the King's a bed.
   Banq. What, can the Deuill speake true?
   Banq. Worthy Macbeth, wee stay vpon your leysure
   Banq. You shall be King
   Banquo within. Giue vs a Light there, hoa
   Banquo. How farre is't call'd to Soris? What are these,
   Cap. As whence the Sunne 'gins his reflection,
   Cap. Doubtfull it stood,
   Cath. Great Dunsinane he strongly Fortifies:
   Cath. Well, march we on,
   Cath. Who knowes if Donalbane be with his brother?
   Doct. A great perturbation in Nature, to receyue at
   Doct. Do you marke that?
   Doct. Euen so?
   Doct. Foule whisp'rings are abroad: vnnaturall deeds
   Doct. Go too, go too:
   Doct. Heark, she speaks, I will set downe what comes
   Doct. How came she by that light?
   Doct. This disease is beyond my practise: yet I haue
   Doct. Well, well, well
   Doct. Were I from Dunsinane away, and cleere,
   Doct. What a sigh is there? The hart is sorely charg'd
   Doct. What is it she do's now?
   Doct. You may to me, and 'tis most meet you should
   Doct. You see her eyes are open
   Don. To Ireland, I:
   Fleance. I take't, 'tis later, Sir
   Gent. Good night good Doctor.
   Gent. I would not haue such a heart in my bosome,
   Gent. I, but their sense are shut
   Gent. It is an accustom'd action with her, to seeme
   Gent. Neither to you, nor any one, hauing no witnesse
   Gent. Pray God it be sir
   Gent. She ha's spoke what shee should not, I am sure
   King. Dismay'd not this our Captaines, Macbeth and
   King. Giue me your hand:
   King. Great happinesse
   King. My plenteous Ioyes,
   King. My worthy Cawdor
   King. No more that Thane of Cawdor shall deceiue
   King. O valiant Cousin, worthy Gentleman
   King. So well thy words become thee, as thy wounds,
   King. There's no Art,
   King. Welcome hither:
   King. What he hath lost, Noble Macbeth hath wonne.
   King. Whence cam'st thou, worthy Thane?
   King. Where's the Thane of Cawdor?
   La. A kinde goodnight to all.
   La. Did you send to him Sir?
   La. Fie for shame
   La. Heere's the smell of the blood still: all the perfumes
   La. If he had beene forgotten,
   La. My worthy Lord
   La. O proper stuffe:
   La. Out damned spot: out I say. One: Two: Why
   La. Pronounce it for me Sir, to all our Friends,
   La. Thinke of this good Peeres
   La. Was the hope drunke,
   La. What Beast was't then
   La. What? quite vnmann'd in folly
   La. You haue displac'd the mirth,
   La. You lacke the season of all Natures, sleepe
   La. Your Seruants euer,
   Lad. Wash your hands, put on your Night-Gowne,
   Lad. Yet heere's a spot
   Lady. A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight
   Lady. All our seruice,
   Lady. And when goes hence?
   Lady. But in them, Natures Coppie's not eterne
   Lady. Come on:
   Lady. Consider it not so deepely
   Lady. Giue him tending,
   Lady. Infirme of purpose:
   Lady. O neuer,
   Lady. Say to the King, I would attend his leysure,
   Lady. Sit worthy Friends: my Lord is often thus,
   Lady. There are two lodg'd together
   Lady. These deeds must not be thought
   Lady. Thou'rt mad to say it.
   Lady. What doe you meane?
   Lady. What's to be done?
   Lady. Who was it, that thus cry'd? why worthy Thane,
   Lady. Woe, alas:
   Lady. You must leaue this
   Len. Good night, and better health
   Len. Sent he to Macduffe?
   Lenox. And that well might
   Lenox. Good morrow, Noble Sir
   Lenox. Heere is a place reseru'd Sir
   Lenox. May't please your Highnesse sit
   Lenox. My young remembrance cannot paralell
   Lenox. Or so much as it needes,
   Lenox. The Night ha's been vnruly:
   Lenox. What a haste lookes through his eyes?
   Lord. Ile send my Prayers with him.
   Lords. Our duties, and the pledge
   Lords. Thankes to your Maiesty
   Mac. Auant, & quit my sight, let the earth hide thee:
   Mac. Being vnprepar'd,
   Mac. But wherefore could not I pronounce Amen?
   Mac. Fit to gouern? No not to liue. O Natio[n] miserable!
   Mac. Speake if you can: what are you?
   Mac. This is a sorry sight
   Mac. Thou art the best o'th' Cut-throats,
   Macb. 'Tis better thee without, then he within.
   Macb. 'Twas a rough Night
   Macb. Accursed be that tongue that tels mee so;
   Macb. And Thane of Cawdor too: went it not so?
   Macb. As I descended?
   Macb. Blood hath bene shed ere now, i'th' olden time
   Macb. Both of you know Banquo was your Enemie
   Macb. Bring forth Men-Children onely:
   Macb. Bring it after me:
   Macb. Bring them before vs.
   Macb. Call 'em: let me see 'em
   Macb. Came they not by you?
   Macb. Can such things be,
   Macb. Come what come may,
   Macb. Come, wee'l to sleepe: My strange & self-abuse
   Macb. Cure of that:
   Macb. Faile not our Feast
   Macb. Fled to England?
   Macb. Geese Villaine?
   Macb. Giue me your fauour:
   Macb. Glamys, and Thane of Cawdor:
   Macb. Go pricke thy face, and ouer-red thy feare
   Macb. Good morrow both
   Macb. Good repose the while
   Macb. Had I three eares, Il'd heare thee
   Macb. Hearke, who lyes i'th' second Chamber?
   Macb. Here had we now our Countries Honor, roof'd,
   Macb. How say'st thou that Macduff denies his person
   Macb. I coniure you, by that which you Professe,
   Macb. I did so:
   Macb. I do forget:
   Macb. I haue almost forgot the taste of Feares:
   Macb. I thinke not of them:
   Macb. I will be satisfied. Deny me this,
   Macb. I will not yeeld
   Macb. I wish your Horses swift, and sure of foot:
   Macb. I, in the Catalogue ye goe for men,
   Macb. If Chance will haue me King,
   Macb. If I stand heere, I saw him
   Macb. If it were done, when 'tis done, then 'twer well,
   Macb. If thou speak'st false,
   Macb. If we should faile?
   Macb. If you shall cleaue to my consent,
   Macb. Ile bring you to him
   Macb. Ile call vpon you straight: abide within,
   Macb. Ile fight, till from my bones, my flesh be hackt.
   Macb. Ile goe no more:
   Macb. Ile put it on:
   Macb. Infected be the Ayre whereon they ride,
   Macb. Let's briefely put on manly readinesse,
   Macb. Lyar, and Slaue
   Macb. Me thought I heard a voyce cry, Sleep no more:
   Macb. My dearest Loue,
   Macb. My name's Macbeth
   Macb. No: nor more fearefull
   Macb. O, full of Scorpions is my Minde, deare Wife:
   Macb. O, yet I doe repent me of my furie,
   Macb. Of all men else I haue auoyded thee:
   Macb. One cry'd God blesse vs, and Amen the other,
   Macb. Our selfe will mingle with Society,
   Macb. Prythee peace:
   Macb. Prythee see there:
   Macb. Ride you this afternoone?
   Macb. Saw you the Weyard Sisters?
   Macb. She should haue dy'de heereafter;
   Macb. So is he mine: and in such bloody distance,
   Macb. So shall I Loue, and so I pray be you:
   Macb. Stay you imperfect Speakers, tell me more:
   Macb. Take thy face hence. Seyton, I am sick at hart,
   Macb. Thankes for that:
   Macb. The Prince of Cumberland: that is a step,
   Macb. The Rest is Labor, which is not vs'd for you:
   Macb. The labour we delight in, Physicks paine:
   Macb. The seruice, and the loyaltie I owe,
   Macb. Then comes my Fit againe:
   Macb. There's comfort yet, they are assaileable,
   Macb. There's one did laugh in's sleepe,
   Macb. Throw Physicke to the Dogs, Ile none of it.
   Macb. Till then enough:
   Macb. Time, thou anticipat'st my dread exploits:
   Macb. To know my deed,
   Macb. To night we hold a solemne Supper sir,
   Macb. Two Truths are told,
   Macb. We haue scorch'd the Snake, not kill'd it:
   Macb. We heare our bloody Cozens are bestow'd
   Macb. We should haue else desir'd your good aduice
   Macb. We will speake further,
   Macb. Well then,
   Macb. Well, say sir
   Macb. What is't you say, the Life?
   Macb. What man dare, I dare:
   Macb. Where?
   Macb. and Lenox. What's the matter?
   Macd. And I must be from thence? My wife kil'd too?
   Macd. And all my Children?
   Macd. And so doe I
   Macd. Bleed, bleed poore Country,
   Macd. Boundlesse intemperance
   Macd. Dispaire thy Charme,
   Macd. He did command me to call timely on him,
   Macd. He ha's no Children. All my pretty ones?
   Macd. He is already nam'd, and gone to Scone
   Macd. How do's my Wife?
   Macd. Humh: I guesse at it
   Macd. I am not treacherous
   Macd. I beleeue, Drinke gaue thee the Lye last Night
   Macd. I haue lost my Hopes
   Macd. I haue no words,
   Macd. I know this is a ioyfull trouble to you:
   Macd. I shall do so:
   Macd. If it be mine
   Macd. Ile make so bold to call, for 'tis my limitted
   Macd. Is the King stirring, worthy Thane?
   Macd. Let our iust Censures
   Macd. Let vs rather
   Macd. Looke to the Lady
   Macd. Make all our Trumpets speak, giue the[m] all breath
   Macd. My Children too?
   Macd. My euer gentle Cozen, welcome hither
   Macd. Not in the Legions
   Macd. O I could play the woman with mine eyes,
   Macd. O Scotland, Scotland
   Macd. O gentle Lady,
   Macd. Oh Relation; too nice, and yet too true
   Macd. Stands Scotland where it did?
   Macd. The Tyrant ha's not batter'd at their peace?
   Macd. Then yeeld thee Coward,
   Macd. This Auarice
   Macd. Well may you see things wel done there: Adieu
   Macd. What concerne they,
   Macd. What should he be?
   Macd. What three things does Drinke especially
   Macd. What's the Disease he meanes?
   Macd. Wherefore did you so?
   Macd. Your Royall Father's murther'd
   Mal. Be not offended:
   Mal. Be this the Whetstone of your sword, let griefe
   Mal. But I haue none. The King-becoming Graces,
   Mal. Hee's worth more sorrow,
   Mal. I grant him Bloody,
   Mal. If such a one be fit to gouerne, speake:
   Mal. Macduff, this Noble passion
   Mal. Macduffe is missing, and your Noble Sonne
   Mal. Nor our strong Sorrow
   Mal. Oh, by whom?
   Mal. This is the Serieant,
   Mal. This time goes manly:
   Mal. What I beleeue, Ile waile;
   Mal. Why doe we hold our tongues,
   Mal. With this, there growes
   Malc. 'Tis his maine hope:
   Malc. Be comforted.
   Malc. Bee't their comfort
   Malc. But Macbeth is.
   Malc. I know him now. Good God betimes remoue
   Malc. Let euery Souldier hew him downe a Bough,
   Malc. Mercifull Heauen:
   Malc. My Countryman: but yet I know him not
   Malc. Perchance euen there
   Malc. This murtherous Shaft that's shot,
   Malc. We haue met with Foes
   Malc. What's the newest griefe?
   Ment. We doubt it nothing
   Ment. What do's the Tyrant
   Ment. Who then shall blame
   Mes. As I did stand my watch vpon the Hill
   Mes. Gracious my Lord,
   Mes. Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so:
   Mess. So please you, it is true: our Thane is comming:
   Mur. 'Tis Banquo's then
   Mur. He's a Traitor
   Mur. Most Royall Sir
   Mur. What you Egge?
   Murth. True, my Lord
   Murth. We are resolu'd, my Lord
   Old M. Gods benyson go with you, and with those
   Old man. 'Tis said, they eate each other
   Port. That it did, Sir, i'the very Throat on me: but I
   Ross. Alas the day,
   Rosse. 'Gainst Nature still,
   Rosse. And Duncans Horses,
   Rosse. And for an earnest of a greater Honor,
   Rosse. Farewell, Father
   Rosse. Gentlemen rise, his Highnesse is not well
   Rosse. God saue the King
   Rosse. Ha, good Father,
   Rosse. His absence (Sir)
   Rosse. I am so much a Foole, should I stay longer
   Rosse. Ile see it done
   Rosse. Let not your eares dispise my tongue for euer,
   Rosse. My deerest Cooz,
   Rosse. Sir, Amen
   Rosse. That now Sweno, the Norwayes King,
   Rosse. They did so:
   Rosse. Well, I will thither
   Rosse. What sights, my Lord?
   Rosse. Where is Duncans body?
   Rosse. Will you to Scone?
   Rosse. Would I could answer
   Rosse. You know not
   Rosse. Your Castle is surpriz'd: your Wife, and Babes
   Rosse. Your son my Lord, ha's paid a souldiers debt,
   Ser. There is ten thousand
   Seruant. Madame, I will.
   Sey. Enter Sir, the Castle.
   Sey. Fare you well:
   Sey. Had he his hurts before?
   Sey. He's worth no more,
   Sey. Some must go off: and yet by these I see,
   Sey. The time approaches,
   Sey. Then he is dead?
   Sey. Why then, Gods Soldier be he:
   Seyt. 'Tis not needed yet
   Seyw. What wood is this before vs?
   Sold. It shall be done
   Son. And be all Traitors, that do so
   Son. And must they all be hang'd, that swear and lye?
   Son. Then the Liars and Swearers are Fools: for there
   Son. Then you'l by 'em to sell againe
   Son. Thou ly'st thou shagge-ear'd Villaine
   Son. Was my Father a Traitor, Mother?
   Son. What is a Traitor?
   Son. Who must hang them?
   Son. Why should I Mother?
   Syw. We learne no other, but the confident Tyrant
   Wife. Euery one that do's so, is a Traitor,
   Wife. Father'd he is,
   Wife. He had none:
   Wife. Now God helpe thee, poore Monkie:
   Wife. Poore Bird,
   Wife. Poore pratler, how thou talk'st?
   Wife. Thou speak'st withall thy wit,
   Wife. What with Wormes, and Flyes?
   Wife. Wisedom? to leaue his wife, to leaue his Babes,
   Wife. Yes, he is dead:
   Y.Sey. No: though thou call'st thy selfe a hoter name
   Y.Sey. The diuell himselfe could not pronounce a Title
   Y.Sey. Thou lyest abhorred Tyrant, with my Sword
  1 Come, let's make hast, shee'l soone be
  1 I Sir, all this is so. But why
  1 Shew
  1 Thrice the brinded Cat hath mew'd
  1. A Saylors Wife had Chestnuts in her Lappe,
  1. All haile Macbeth, haile to thee Thane of Glamis
  1. But who did bid thee ioyne with vs?
  1. Was't not the way?
  1. When shall we three meet againe?
  1. Where hast thou beene, Sister?
  1. Why how now Hecat, you looke angerly?
  1.Murth. We are men, my Liege
  2 Appar. Macbeth, Macbeth, Macbeth
  2 By the pricking of my Thumbes,
  2. A Light, a Light
  2. Killing Swine
  2. Vpon the Heath
  2. When the Hurley-burley's done,
  3. A Drumme, a Drumme:
  3. Macbeth
  3. There's but one downe: the Sonne is fled
  3. Who did strike out the Light?
  All. A deed without a name
  All. Listen, but speake not too't
  All. Seeke to know no more
  Ang. Who was the Thane, liues yet,
  Ban. As farre, my Lord, as will fill vp the time
  Ban. I, my good Lord
  Ban. I, my good Lord: our time does call vpon's
  Ban. Too cruell, any where.
  Banq. How goes the Night, Boy?
  Banq. The Earth hath bubbles, as the Water ha's,
  Banq. Thou hast it now, King, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
  Banq. Toth' selfe-same tune and words: who's here?
  Cap. Yes, as Sparrowes, Eagles;
  Doct. I Sir: there are a crew of wretched Soules
  Doct. I haue too Nights watch'd with you, but can
  Doct. I my good Lord: your Royall Preparation
  Doct. Not so sicke my Lord,
  Doct. Therein the Patient
  Doct. Will she go now to bed?
  Donal. What is amisse?
  Donal. What should be spoken here,
  Fleance. The Moone is downe: I haue not heard the
  Fleans , his Sonne, that keepes him companie,
  Gent. Directly
  Gent. Since his Maiesty went into the Field, I haue
  Gent. That Sir, which I will not report after her
  Gent. Why it stood by her: she ha's light by her continually,
  Hec. Haue I not reason (Beldams) as you are?
  Hec. O well done: I commend your paines,
  King. Is execution done on Cawdor?
  King. See, see our honor'd Hostesse:
  King. This Castle hath a pleasant seat,
  King. True worthy Banquo: he is full so valiant,
  King. What bloody man is that? he can report,
  La. Almost at oddes with morning, which is which
  La. He has almost supt: why haue you left the chamber?
  La. I pray you speake not: he growes worse & worse
  La. Know you not, he ha's?
  La. That which hath made the[m] drunk, hath made me bold:
  Lad. The Thane of Fife, had a wife: where is she now?
  Lady. Alack, I am afraid they haue awak'd,
  Lady. Donalbaine
  Lady. Helpe me hence, hoa
  Lady. I
  Lady. I heard the Owle schreame, and the Crickets cry.
  Lady. Is Banquo gone from Court?
  Lady. My Hands are of your colour: but I shame
  Lady. My Royall Lord,
  Lady. Nought's had, all's spent.
  Lady. Now
  Lady. Onely looke vp cleare:
  Lady. They met me in the day of successe: and I haue
  Lady. To bed, to bed: there's knocking at the gate:
  Lady. We faile?
  Lady. What's the Businesse?
  Lady. Who dares receiue it other,
  Len. 'Tis two or three my Lord, that bring you word:
  Len. For certaine Sir, he is not: I haue a File
  Len. I, my good Lord
  Lenox. Goes the King hence to day?
  Lenox. Heere my good Lord.
  Lenox. Meane you his Maiestie?
  Lenox. My former Speeches,
  Lenox. No indeed my Lord
  Lenox. No my Lord
  Lenox. Those of his Chamber, as it seem'd, had don't:
  Lenox. What's your Graces will
  Lord. He did: and with an absolute Sir, not I
  Lord. The Sonnes of Duncane
  Lords. What, my good Lord?
  Mac. Hath he ask'd for me?
  Mac. Then liue Macduffe: what need I feare of thee?
  Mac. We will proceed no further in this Businesse:
  Macb. A Friend
  Macb. Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest Chuck,
  Macb. Bring me no more Reports, let them flye all:
  Macb. Goe bid thy Mistresse, when my drinke is ready,
  Macb. Had I but dy'd an houre before this chance,
  Macb. Hang out our Banners on the outward walls,
  Macb. He does: he did appoint so
  Macb. Heere's our chiefe Guest
  Macb. How now you secret, black, & midnight Hags?
  Macb. I am settled, and bend vp
  Macb. I haue done the deed:
  Macb. I heare it by the way: But I will send:
  Macb. I, and a bold one, that dare looke on that
  Macb. Into the Ayre: and what seem'd corporall,
  Macb. It will haue blood they say:
  Macb. Not yet
  Macb. See they encounter thee with their harts thanks
  Macb. So foule and faire a day I haue not seene
  Macb. Still it cry'd, Sleepe no more to all the House:
  Macb. Sweet Remembrancer:
  Macb. Tell me, thou vnknowne power
  Macb. That will neuer bee:
  Macb. The Table's full
  Macb. The Thane of Cawdor liues:
  Macb. They haue tied me to a stake, I cannot flye,
  Macb. Thou art too like the Spirit of Banquo: Down:
  Macb. Thou canst not say I did it: neuer shake
  Macb. Thou loosest labour
  Macb. Thou was't borne of woman;
  Macb. Thou'lt be affraid to heare it
  Macb. To morrow, as he purposes
  Macb. What Newes more?
  Macb. What ere thou art, for thy good caution, thanks
  Macb. When?
  Macb. Whence is that knocking?
  Macb. Where are they? Gone?
  Macb. Which of you haue done this?
  Macb. Who can be wise, amaz'd, temp'rate, & furious,
  Macb. Who's there? what hoa?
  Macb. Why should I play the Roman Foole, and dye
  Macb. You are, and doe not know't:
  Macb. You know your owne degrees, sit downe:
  Macb. Your Children shall be Kings
  Macb. Your Spirits shine through you.
  Macd. Approch the Chamber, and destroy your sight
  Macd. Be not a niggard of your speech: How gos't?
  Macd. Carried to Colmekill,
  Macd. Confusion now hath made his Master-peece:
  Macd. Haile King, for so thou art.
  Macd. Is thy Master stirring?
  Macd. No Cosin, Ile to Fife
  Macd. O horror, horror, horror,
  Macd. See who comes heere
  Macd. Such welcome, and vnwelcom things at once
  Macd. That way the noise is: Tyrant shew thy face,
  Macd. They were subborned,
  Macd. Those that Macbeth hath slaine
  Macd. Turne Hell-hound, turne
  Macd. Was it so late, friend, ere you went to Bed,
  Macd. Why see you not?
  Mal. I thanke you Doctor
  Mal. I would the Friends we misse, were safe arriu'd
  Mal. It is my selfe I meane: in whom I know
  Mal. Let vs seeke out some desolate shade, & there
  Mal. My Liege, they are not yet come back.
  Mal. Now neere enough:
  Mal. The worthy Thane of Rosse
  Mal. Tis call'd the Euill.
  Mal. We shall not spend a large expence of time,
  Mal. Well, more anon. Comes the King forth
  Malc. Cosins, I hope the dayes are neere at hand
  Malc. Dispute it like a man
  Malc. What will you doe?
  Ment. The English powre is neere, led on by Malcolm,
  Ment. The wood of Birnane
  Mes. Blesse you faire Dame: I am not to you known,
  Mess. The King comes here to Night
  Mur. I, my good Lord: safe in a ditch he bides,
  Mur. My Lord his throat is cut, that I did for him
  Mur. Where is your Husband?
  Murth. It was, so please your Highnesse
  Old man. 'Tis vnnaturall,
  Old man. Threescore and ten I can remember well,
  Port. Faith Sir, we were carowsing till the second Cock:
  Port. Marry, Sir, Nose-painting, Sleepe, and Vrine.
  Porter. Here's a knocking indeede: if a man were
  Ro. Wife, Children, Seruants, all that could be found
  Ross. Is't known who did this more then bloody deed?
  Rosse. Alas poore Countrey,
  Rosse. From Fiffe, great King,
  Rosse. I haue said
  Rosse. I, and brought off the field: your cause of sorrow
  Rosse. I, on the Front
  Rosse. No minde that's honest
  Rosse. No, they were wel at peace, when I did leaue 'em
  Rosse. That of an houres age, doth hisse the speaker,
  Rosse. The King hath happily receiu'd, Macbeth,
  Rosse. Well too
  Rosse. When I came hither to transport the Tydings
  Rosse. Why well
  Rosse. You must haue patience Madam
  Ser. Souldiers Sir
  Ser. The English Force, so please you
  Seruant. I, Madame, but returnes againe to Night
  Seruant. They are, my Lord, without the Pallace
  Sey. All is confirm'd my Lord, which was reported
  Sey. It is the cry of women, my good Lord
  Sey. The Queene (my Lord) is dead
  Sey. This way my Lord, the Castles gently rendred:
  Sey. What's your gracious pleasure?
  Son. As Birds do Mother
  Son. He ha's kill'd me Mother,
  Son. If he were dead, youl'd weepe for him: if you
  Son. Nay how will you do for a Husband?
  Son. With what I get I meane, and so do they
  Wife. Euery one
  Wife. I hope in no place so vnsanctified,
  Wife. I, that he was
  Wife. Sirra, your Fathers dead,
  Wife. What had he done, to make him fly the Land?
  Wife. Whether should I flye?
  Wife. Why I can buy me twenty at any Market
  Wife. Why one that sweares, and lyes
  Wife. Why, the honest men
  Y.Sey. What is thy name?
'Gainst my Captiuitie: Haile braue friend;
'Tis giuen, with welcome: to feede were best at home:
'Tis hard to reconcile.
'Tis not for you to heare what I can speake:
'Tis safer, to be that which we destroy,
'Twere best not know my selfe.
'Twixt this, and Supper. Goe not my Horse the better,
'tis her command
(A thing most strange, and certaine)
(And betimes I will) to the weyard Sisters.
(As, and't please Heauen he shall not) they should finde
(From whom this Tyrant holds the due of Birth)
(How ere you come to know it) answer me:
(Impostors to true feare) would well become
(Like Valours Minion) caru'd out his passage,
(The most diminitiue of Birds) will fight,
(Whereto the rather shall his dayes hard Iourney
(Which still hath been both graue, and prosperous)
(Worthie to be a Rebell, for to that
A Bell rings.
A Cry within of Women.
A Dagger of the Minde, a false Creation,
A Faulcon towring in her pride of place,
A Lymbeck onely: when in Swinish sleepe,
A Moderne extasie: The Deadmans knell,
A fellow to it.
A good and vertuous Nature may recoyle
A heauie Summons lyes like Lead vpon me,
A little Water cleares vs of this deed.
A most myraculous worke in this good King,
A prosperous Gentleman: And to be King,
A shew of eight Kings, and Banquo last, with a glasse in his hand.
A stanchlesse Auarice, that were I King,
A third, is like the former. Filthy Hagges,
A womans story, at a Winters fire
According to our order
According to the gift, which bounteous Nature
Accounted dangerous folly. Why then (alas)
Acquaint you with the perfect Spy o'th' time,
Acting it many wayes. Nay, had I powre, I should
Actus Primus. Scoena Prima.
Actus Quartus. Scena Prima.
Actus Quintus. Scena Prima.
Actus Secundus. Scena Prima.
Actus Tertius. Scena Prima.
Adde thereto a Tigers Chawdron,
Adders Forke, and Blinde-wormes Sting,
Adieu, till you returne at Night.
Aduise him to a Caution, t' hold what distance
After Lifes fitfull Feuer, he sleepes well,
After these wayes: so, it will make vs mad
Against my neer'st of Life: and though I could
Against the Churches: Though the yesty Waues
Against the vndivulg'd pretence, I fight
Against the vse of Nature? Present Feares
Against those Honors deepe, and broad,
Alarum within. Enter King Malcome, Donalbaine, Lenox, with
Alarum'd by his Centinell, the Wolfe,
Alarums continued.
Alarums. Enter Macduffe.
All by the Name of Dogges: the valued file
All causes shall giue way. I am in blood
All continent Impediments would ore-beare
All is but Toyes: Renowne and Grace is dead,
All is the Feare, and nothing is the Loue;
All mortall Consequences, haue pronounc'd me thus:
All swolne and Vlcerous, pittifull to the eye,
All that impeides thee from the Golden Round,
All the Quarters that they know,
All the particulars of Vice so grafted,
All vnity on earth
All which we pine for now. And this report
Almost affraid to know it selfe. It cannot
Alreadie are i'th' Court
Already at a point, was setting foorth:
Am I to feare, or none.
An absolute Trust.
An older, and a better Souldier, none
And 'tis not done: th' attempt, and not the deed,
And (as they say) lamentings heard i'th' Ayre;
And Braggart with my tongue. But gentle Heauens,
And Drinke, Sir, is a great prouoker of three things
And Fortune on his damned Quarry smiling,
And Guardian of their Bones
And Honor
And I the Mistris of your Charmes,
And I will put that Businesse in your Bosomes,
And Ile request your presence
And Pitty, like a naked New-borne-Babe,
And Prophecying, with Accents terrible,
And addrest them againe to sleepe
And all our yesterdayes, haue lighted Fooles
And all things else, that might
And all to all
And all-thing vnbecomming
And an eternall Curse fall on you: Let me know.
And at the pit of Acheron
And bad them speake to him. Then Prophet-like,
And be these Iugling Fiends no more beleeu'd,
And bear't before him, thereby shall we shadow
And beate them backward home. What is that noyse?
And bid my will auouch it; yet I must not,
And binde vs further to you
And breake it to our hope. Ile not fight with thee
And champion me to th' vtterance.
And chastise with the valour of my Tongue
And choake their Art: The mercilesse Macdonwald
And damn'd all those that trust them. I did heare
And damn'd be him, that first cries hold, enough.
And dare me to the Desart with thy Sword:
And dasht the Braines out, had I so sworne
And did shake
And do not know our selues: when we hold Rumor
And do's blaspheme his breed? Thy Royall Father
And euery one shall share i'th' gaines:
And fall of many Kings. But feare not yet
And falles on th' other.
And fanne our people cold.
And fill me from the Crowne to the Toe, top-full
And fix'd his Head vpon our Battlements
And for his Issue, whose heauie hand
And hath beene from his youth. Pray you keepe Seat,
And health on both
And heere from gracious England haue I offer
And his gash'd Stabs, look'd like a Breach in Nature,
And his great Loue (sharpe as his Spurre) hath holp him
And hold thee to my Heart
And hums; as who should say, you'l rue the time
And in his Royaltie of Nature reignes that
And in his commendations, I am fed:
And keepe the naturall Rubie of your Cheekes,
And let the Angell whom thou still hast seru'd
And let vs not be daintie of leaue-taking,
And like a Rat without a tayle,
And little is to do
And liue a Coward in thine owne Esteeme?
And liue to be the shew, and gaze o'th' time.
And looke on Death it selfe: vp, vp, and see
And make my seated Heart knock at my Ribbes,
And make our Faces Vizards to our Hearts,
And make vs euen with you. My Thanes and Kinsmen
And many vnruffe youths, that euen now
And meet i'th' Hall together
And mingle with the English Epicures,
And more I begge not.
And mouncht, & mouncht, and mouncht:
And must be hang'd
And my more-hauing, would be as a Sawce
And none serue with him, but constrained things,
And nothing is, but what is not
And now about the Cauldron sing
And oftentimes, to winne vs to our harme,
And on thy Blade, and Dudgeon, Gouts of Blood,
And one cry'd Murther, that they did wake each other:
And ouercome vs like a Summers Clowd,
And our Duties are to your Throne, and State,
And pall thee in the dunnest smoake of Hell,
And play the humble Host:
And points at them for his. What? is this so?
And powr'd them downe before him
And purge it to a sound and pristine Health,
And push vs from our stooles. This is more strange
And put a barren Scepter in my Gripe,
And question this most bloody piece of worke,
And say, it is not so.
And say, which Graine will grow, and which will not,
And sent forth great Largesse to your Offices.
And set forth a deepe Repentance:
And set me vp in hope. But hush, no more.
And shall continue, our Graces towards him.
And shew like those you are: You (worthy Vnkle)
And shew the best of our delights.
And shew vs to be Watchers: be not lost
And shut vp in measurelesse content
And sleepe in spight of Thunder.
And so God be with him. Here comes newer comfort.
And so I doe commend you to their backs.
And so his Knell is knoll'd
And something from the Pallace: alwayes thought,
And still keepe eyes vpon her: So goodnight,
And such an Instrument I was to vse.
And sundry Blessings hang about his Throne,
And take a Bond of Fate: thou shalt not liue,
And take my Milke for Gall, you murth'ring Ministers,
And take the present horror from the time,
And thanke vs for your trouble
And that distill'd by Magicke slights,
And that which rather thou do'st feare to doe,
And that which should accompany Old-Age,
And the Crow makes Wing toth' Rookie Wood:
And the rich East to boot
And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late,
And the surfeted Groomes doe mock their charge
And the very Ports they blow,
And then is heard no more. It is a Tale
And there an end: But now they rise againe
And these are of them: whither are they vanish'd?
And thou oppos'd, being of no woman borne,
And thrice againe, to make vp nine.
And to be baited with the Rabbles curse.
And to be more then what you were, you would
And to our deere Friend Banquo, whom we misse:
And to that dauntlesse temper of his Minde,
And top of Soueraignty?
And vantage; or that with both he labour'd
And wakes it now to looke so greene, and pale,
And wash this filthie Witnesse from your Hand.
And weares vpon his Baby-brow, the round
And wee'le not fayle: when Duncan is asleepe,
And went further, which is now
And what will you do now? How will you liue?
And when we haue our naked Frailties hid,
And which is worse, all you haue done
And wish th' estate o'th' world were now vndon.
And with him poure we in our Countries purge,
And with his former Title greet Macbeth
And with some sweet Obliuious Antidote
And with thy bloodie and inuisible Hand
And would not take their part? Sinfull Macduff,
And yet I would not sleepe:
And yet I'faith with wit enough for thee
And yet are on't? Liue you, or are you aught
And yet darke Night strangles the trauailing Lampe:
And yet hee's Father-lesse
And yet seeme cold. The time you may so hoodwinke:
And yet the eighth appeares, who beares a glasse,
And yet would'st wrongly winne.
And yet your Beards forbid me to interprete
And you all know, Security
And you whose places are the nearest, know,
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
Anon, anon, I pray you remember the Porter.
Another yet? A seauenth? Ile see no more:
Approach thou like the rugged Russian Beare,
Are Counsailers to feare. What Soldiers Whay-face?
Are but as Pictures: 'tis the Eye of Childhood,
Are hyr'd to beare their Staues; either thou Macbeth,
Are lesse then horrible Imaginings:
Are made, not mark'd: Where violent sorrow seemes
Are stolne away and fled, which puts vpon them
Are with a most indissoluble tye
Are ye fantasticall, or that indeed
Are you so Gospell'd, to pray for this good man,
Aroynt thee, Witch, the rumpe-fed Ronyon cryes.
Art not without Ambition, but without
Art thou not fatall Vision, sensible
As 'twere a carelesse Trifle
As Cannons ouer-charg'd with double Cracks,
As Honor, Loue, Obedience, Troopes of Friends,
As Hounds, and Greyhounds, Mungrels, Spaniels, Curres,
As I shall finde the time to friend: I wil.
As Iustice, Verity, Temp'rance, Stablenesse,
As broad, and generall, as the casing Ayre:
As by the strength of their illusion,
As calling home our exil'd Friends abroad,
As easie may'st thou the intrenchant Ayre
As from your Graues rise vp, and walke like Sprights,
As happy Prologues to the swelling Act
As if it felt with Scotland, and yell'd out
As life were in't. I haue supt full with horrors,
As little is the Wisedome, where the flight
As one that had beene studied in his death,
As seemeth by his plight, of the Reuolt
As she is troubled with thicke-comming Fancies
As the weyard Women promis'd, and I feare
As they had seene me with these Hangmans hands:
As this which now I draw.
As thou art in desire? Would'st thou haue that
As thou didst leaue it
As two spent Swimmers, that doe cling together,
As vpon thee Macbeth, their Speeches shine,
As we shall make our Griefes and Clamor rore,
As will to Greatnesse dedicate themselues,
As you haue done to this
Assisted by that most disloyall Traytor,
At first and last, the hearty welcome
At least wee'l dye with Harnesse on our backe.
At no time broke my Faith, would not betray
At one fell swoope?
At our great bidding
At what it did so freely? From this time,
Attend his Maiesty
Attend the true euent, and put we on
Attendants.
Attendants.
Attendants.
Augures, and vnderstood Relations, haue
Authoriz'd by her Grandam: shame it selfe,
Away, and mock the time with fairest show,
Backe againe.
Balme of hurt Mindes, great Natures second Course,
Banquet prepar'd. Enter Macbeth, Lady, Rosse, Lenox, Lords, and
Banquo, Lenox,
Banquo, and Donalbaine: Malcolme awake,
Banquoh?
Be bright and Iouiall among your Guests to Night
Be call'd our Mother, but our Graue; where nothing
Be large in mirth, anon wee'l drinke a Measure
Be like our warranted Quarrell. Why are you silent?
Be not found heere: Hence with your little ones
Be so much more the man. Nor time, nor place
Beauteous, and swift, the Minions of their Race,
Before we reckon with your seuerall loues,
Began a fresh assault
Behold where stands
Behold, looke, loe, how say you:
Bell rings. Enter Lady.
Besides the Thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange:
Best halfe of our Affaire
Bestride our downfall Birthdome: each new Morne,
Beware Macduffe,
Beware the Thane of Fife: dismisse me. Enough.
Blessing vpon you
Blood will haue Blood:
Bloody Instructions, which being taught, returne
Both more and lesse haue giuen him the Reuolt,
Both sides are euen: heere Ile sit i'th' mid'st,
Both the Worlds suffer,
Bounty, Perseuerance, Mercy, Lowlinesse,
Boyle thou first i'th' charmed pot
Brandish'd by man that's of a Woman borne.
Bring thou this Fiend of Scotland, and my selfe
Broke the good meeting, with most admir'd disorder
But Beare-like I must fight the course. What's he
But I haue spoke with one that saw him die:
But I must also feele it as a man;
But Swords I smile at, Weapons laugh to scorne,
But Treasons Capitall, confess'd, and prou'd,
But as a thing of Custome: 'Tis no other,
But be the Serpent vnder't. He that's comming,
But certaine issue, stroakes must arbitrate,
But cruell are the times, when we are Traitors
But floate vpon a wilde and violent Sea
But get thee backe, my soule is too much charg'd
But go at once
But heere, vpon this Banke and Schoole of time,
But how wilt thou do for a Father?
But how, of Cawdor? the Thane of Cawdor liues
But in a Syue Ile thither sayle,
But in it shares some woe, though the maine part
But know not how to doo't
But let the frame of things dis-ioynt,
But like a man he dy'de
But make amends now: Get you gon,
But mine owne Safeties: you may be rightly iust,
But no more sights. Where are these Gentlemen?
But now I am cabin'd, crib'd, confin'd, bound in
But peace; for from broad words, and cause he fayl'd
But screw your courage to the sticking place,
But shift away: there's warrant in that Theft,
But signes of Noblenesse, like Starres, shall shine
But that my selfe should be the Roote, and Father
But the Norweyan Lord, surueying vantage,
But vnder heauie Iudgement beares that Life,
But who knowes nothing, is once seene to smile:
But with the aid of vse
But yet 'tis one
But yet Ile make assurance: double sure,
Buttrice, nor Coigne of Vantage, but this Bird
By Maggot Pyes, & Choughes, & Rookes brought forth
By Sinells death, I know I am Thane of Glamis,
By doing euery thing safe toward your Loue
By each at once her choppie finger laying
By him that shall succeede
By his loued Mansonry, that the Heauens breath
By his owne Interdiction stands accust,
By many of these traines, hath sought to win me
By the name of most kind Hostesse,
By the worst meanes, the worst, for mine owne good,
By this great clatter, one of greatest note
By your leaue Hostesse.
Can post with post, and euery one did beare
Can tell so much: Shall Banquo's issue euer
Can touch him further
Can'st thou not Minister to a minde diseas'd,
Cancell and teare to pieces that great Bond,
Cannot be ill; cannot be good.
Cannot once start me. Wherefore was that cry?
Chiefe nourisher in Life's Feast
Childe of integrity, hath from my soule
Children, and Seruants; which doe but what they should,
Cleane from my Hand? no: this my Hand will rather
Cleanse the stufft bosome, of that perillous stuffe
Clock
Come Sisters, cheere we vp his sprights,
Come bring me where they are.
Come friends.
Come go we to the King, our Power is ready,
Come in Taylor, here you may rost your Goose.
Come in, without there.
Come like shadowes, so depart.
Come sir, dispatch. If thou could'st Doctor, cast
Come, come, come, come, giue me your hand: What's
Come, put mine Armour on: giue me my Staffe:
Comes toward Dunsinane. Arme, Arme, and out,
Command vpon me, to the which my duties
Commencing in a Truth? I am Thane of Cawdor.
Commends th' Ingredience of our poyson'd Challice
Compell'd these skipping Kernes to trust their heeles,
Conduct me to mine Host we loue him highly,
Confess'd his Treasons, implor'd your Highnesse Pardon,
Confound and swallow Nauigation vp:
Confounds vs: hearke: I lay'd their Daggers ready,
Confronted him with selfe-comparisons,
Contending 'gainst Obedience, as they would
Conuert to anger: blunt not the heart, enrage it
Conuey your pleasures in a spacious plenty,
Could trammell vp the Consequence, and catch
Courage, to make's loue knowne?
Cousins, a word, I pray you
Craues composition:
Crauing vs ioyntly. Hye you to Horse:
Creepes in this petty pace from day to day,
Curbing his lauish spirit: and to conclude,
Curses, not lowd but deepe, Mouth-honor, breath
Cut short all intermission: Front to Front,
Dayes and Nights, ha's thirty one:
Deale betweene thee and me; For euen now
Deare Duff, I prythee contradict thy selfe,
Death of thy Soule, those Linnen cheekes of thine
Descend.
Descends.
Desire his Iewels, and this others House,
Destroying them for wealth
Deuotion, Patience, Courage, Fortitude,
Did not you speake?
Did then adhere, and yet you would make both:
Did you say All? Oh Hell-Kite! All?
Didst thou not heare a noyse?
Direnesse familiar to my slaughterous thoughts
Discomfort swells: Marke King of Scotland, marke,
Disdayning Fortune, with his brandisht Steele,
Disguising what they are
Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
Ditch-deliuer'd by a Drab,
Do I put vp that womanly defence,
Do better vpon them.
Do breed vnnaturall troubles: infected mindes
Do call it valiant Fury, but for certaine
Do come to Dunsinane, and now a Wood
Do faithfull Homage, and receiue free Honors,
Do not muse at me my most worthy Friends,
Do we but finde the Tyrants power to night,
Do's vnmake you. I haue giuen Sucke, and know
Doe swarme vpon him) from the Westerne Isles
Doe you finde your patience so predominant,
Doe you not hope your Children shall be Kings,
Drum and Colours. Enter Malcolme, Seyward, Macduffe,
Drum and Colours. Enter Menteth, Cathnes, Angus, Lenox,
Drum within.
Drumme and Colours. Enter Malcolme, Seyward, Macduffe, and
Due to some single brest?
Duncan comes here to Night
Duncane is in his Graue:
Dy'de euery day she liu'd. Fare thee well,
Dying, or ere they sicken
Each corporall Agent to this terrible Feat.
Each drop of vs
Each minute teemes a new one
Each way, and moue. I take my leaue of you:
Enter Banquo and Fleans, with a Torch.
Enter Banquo, and Fleance, with a Torch before him.
Enter Banquo.
Enter Banquo.
Enter Fighting, and Macbeth slaine.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Hecat, and the other three Witches.
Enter Lady, with a Taper.
Enter Lady.
Enter Lady.
Enter Lady.
Enter Lady.
Enter Lenox, and another Lord.
Enter Lenox.
Enter Macbeth and Banquo.
Enter Macbeth, Banquo, Rosse, and Angus.
Enter Macbeth, Doctor, and Attendants.
Enter Macbeth, Lenox, and Rosse.
Enter Macbeth, Seyton, & Souldiers, with Drum and Colours.
Enter Macbeth, and a Seruant with a Torch.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeths Lady, and a Seruant.
Enter Macbeths Wife alone with a Letter.
Enter Macduff, and Lenox.
Enter Macduff.
Enter Macduffe, with Macbeths head.
Enter Macduffe.
Enter Macduffe.
Enter Macduffes Wife, her Son, and Rosse.
Enter Malcolme and Donalbaine.
Enter Malcolme and Macduffe.
Enter Malcolme and Seyward.
Enter Messenger.
Enter Murtherers.
Enter Rosse and Angus.
Enter Rosse and Angus.
Enter Rosse, with an Old man.
Enter Rosse.
Enter Seruant, and two Murtherers.
Enter Seruant.
Enter Seyton.
Enter a Doctor of Physicke, and a Wayting Gentlewoman.
Enter a Doctor.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter a Porter. Knocking within.
Enter first Murtherer.
Enter the Ghost of Banquo, and sits in Macbeths place.
Enter three Murtherers.
Enter young Seyward.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Ere humane Statute purg'd the gentle Weale:
Ere we will eate our Meale in feare, and sleepe
Erre in report of vs
Esteeme him as a Lambe, being compar'd
Euen like the deed that's done: On Tuesday last,
Euen till destruction sicken: Answer me
Euen to the disposition that I owe,
Except they meant to bathe in reeking Wounds,
Excite the mortified man
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt. Alarum
Exeunt. Lords.
Exeunt. Macbeth and Lenox.
Exeunt. fighting. Alarums.
Exeunt. marching
Exeunt. marching.
Exeunt. omnes
Exit Banquo.
Exit Banquo.
Exit Lady.
Exit Lords.
Exit Macduffe.
Exit Messenger
Exit Messenger.
Exit Murderer.
Exit Rosse.
Exit Seruant.
Exit Seruant.
Exit crying Murther.
Exit. Alarums.
Expire before the Flowers in their Caps,
Eye of Newt, and Toe of Frogge,
FINIS. THE TRAGEDIE OF MACBETH.
Faith here's an Equiuocator, that could sweare in both
False Face must hide what the false Heart doth know.
Farwell.
Feare not Macbeth, no man that's borne of woman
Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
Fell slaughter on their soules: Heauen rest them now
Fight, and young Seyward slaine.
Fight: Alarum
Finding it so inclinde
Finger of Birth-strangled Babe,
Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble
Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble
Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble
First, as I am his Kinsman, and his Subiect,
Fleans is scap'd
Flourish.
Flourish. Enter King, Lenox, Malcolme, Donalbaine, and
Flourish. Exeunt Omnes.
Flourish. Exeunt.
Flye good Fleans, flye, flye, flye,
Flye to the Court of England, and vnfold
For 'twould haue anger'd any heart aliue
For Banquo's Issue haue I fil'd my Minde,
For Fleans fled: Men must not walke too late.
For Ruines wastfull entrance: there the Murtherers,
For a Charme of powrefull trouble,
For a darke houre, or twaine
For a few words
For braue Macbeth (well hee deserues that Name)
For certaine friends that are both his, and mine,
For euer knit
For goodnesse dare not check thee: wear y thy wrongs,
For in my way it lyes. Starres hide your fires,
For it hath Cow'd my better part of man:
For it is thine
For it must seeme their Guilt.
For my heart speakes, they are welcome.
For strangers to my Nature. I am yet
For sundry weightie Reasons
For th' Ingredience of our Cawdron
For that I saw the Tyrants Power a-foot.
For the Blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles vpon me,
For the whole Space that's in the Tyrants Graspe,
For them, the gracious Duncan haue I murther'd,
For those of old, and the late Dignities,
For thy vndaunted Mettle should compose
For where there is aduantage to be giuen,
Free from our Feasts, and Banquets bloody kniues;
From ouer-credulous hast: but God aboue
From the Murderers Gibbet, throw
From thence, the sawce to meate is Ceremony,
From what we feare, yet know not what we feare,
From whence himselfe do's flye? He loues vs not,
Gall of Goate, and Slippes of Yew,
Gate
Gentle my Lord, sleeke o're your rugged Lookes,
Get on your Night-Gowne, least occasion call vs,
Giue me my Armor
Giue me my Sword: who's there?
Giue me the Daggers: the sleeping, and the dead,
Giue me, quoth I.
Giue solely soueraigne sway, and Masterdome
Giue sorrow words; the griefe that do's not speake,
Giue to our Tables meate, sleepe to our Nights:
Giuen to the common Enemie of Man,
Glamis hath murther'd Sleepe, and therefore Cawdor
Glamys thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
God, God forgiue vs all. Looke after her,
Goes Fleance with you?
Golden Opinions from all sorts of people,
Good things of Day begin to droope, and drowse,
Grapples you to the heart; and loue of vs,
Great Byrnam Wood, to high Dunsmane Hill
Great Glamys, worthy Cawdor,
Great Tyrrany, lay thou thy basis sure,
Great businesse must be wrought ere Noone.
Greater then both, by the all-haile hereafter,
Greatnesse) that thou might'st not loose the dues of reioycing
Had I as many Sonnes, as I haue haires,
Haile King of Scotland
Hang loose about him, like a Giants Robe
Hang those that talke of Feare. Giue me mine Armor:
Hang vpon his Pent-house Lid:
Hanging a golden stampe about their neckes,
Hath Nature that in time will Venom breed,
Hath banish'd me from Scotland. O my Brest,
Hath bene but for a wayward Sonne,
Hath borne his Faculties so meeke; hath bin
Hath bow'd you to the Graue, and begger'd
Hath in him clos'd: whereby he does receiue
Hath left you vnattended.
Hath made his pendant Bed, and procreant Cradle,
Hath not yet lighted: and our safest way,
Hath rung Nights yawning Peale,
Hath so exasperate their King, that hee
Hath so incens'd, that I am recklesse what I doe,
Hath trifled former knowings
Haue but hit your Thoughts
Haue ouerthrowne him
Haue pluckt my Nipple from his Bonelesse Gummes,
Haue theirs, themselues, and what is theirs in compt,
He Descends.
He bad me, from him, call thee Thane of Cawdor:
He brings great newes,
He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause
He could not misse 'em. Had he not resembled
He findes thee in the stout Norweyan Rankes,
He ha's borne all things well, and I do thinke,
He hath Honour'd me of late, and I haue bought
He hath a Wisdome, that doth guide his Valour,
He hath a heauenly guift of Prophesie,
He hath beene in vnusuall Pleasure,
He hath not touch'd you yet. I am yong, but something
He is Noble, Wise, Iudicious, and best knowes
He is about it, the Doores are open:
He onely liu'd but till he was a man,
He shall liue a man forbid:
He shall spurne Fate, scorne Death, and beare
He wants the naturall touch. For the poore Wren
He was a Gentleman, on whom I built
He will againe be well. If much you note him
Heap'd vp to them, we rest your Ermites
Heare his speech, but say thou nought
Heare it not, Duncan, for it is a Knell,
Heare not my steps, which they may walke, for feare
Hearke, I am call'd: my little Spirit see
Hearke, more knocking.
Hearke, peace: it was the Owle that shriek'd,
Heauen forgiue him too
Heere comes the good Macduffe.
Heere may you see the Tyrant
Henceforth be Earles, the first that euer Scotland
Her Husband's to Aleppo gone, Master o'th' Tiger:
Her nine Farrow: Greaze that's sweaten
Her yong ones in her Nest, against the Owle:
Himselfe best knowes: but strangely visited people
His Cloyster'd flight, ere to black Heccats summons
His Mansion, and his Titles, in a place
His Message ere he come, that a swift blessing
His Siluer skinne, lac'd with His Golden Blood,
His Vnkle Seyward, and the good Macduff.
His Wife, his Babes, and all vnfortunate Soules
His Wonders and his Prayses doe contend,
His flight was madnesse: when our Actions do not,
His hopes 'boue Wisedome, Grace, and Feare:
His pester'd Senses to recoyle, and start,
His presence at the Tyrants Feast, I heare
His secret Murthers sticking on his hands,
His spungie Officers? who shall beare the guilt
His wisedome can prouide. Some holy Angell
Hoboyes
Hoboyes, and Torches. Enter King, Malcolme, Donalbaine,
Hoboyes. Torches. Enter a Sewer, and diuers Seruants with Dishes
Hold fast the mortall Sword: and like good men,
Horrible sight: Now I see 'tis true,
Houer through the fogge and filthie ayre.
Houres dreadfull, and things strange: but this sore Night
How do's your Patient, Doctor?
How easie is it then? your Constancie
How goes the world Sir, now?
How is't with me, when euery noyse appalls me?
How it did greeue Macbeth? Did he not straight
How now, my Lord, why doe you keepe alone?
How now? What Newes?
How tender 'tis to loue the Babe that milkes me,
How wilt thou do for a Father?
How you shall bid God-eyld vs for your paines,
How you were borne in hand, how crost:
I 'ginne to be a-weary of the Sun,
I am a man againe: pray you sit still
I am afraid, to thinke what I haue done:
I am as I haue spoken
I am for th' Ayre: This night Ile spend
I am in this earthly world: where to do harme
I beare a charmed Life, which must not yeeld
I cannot but remember such things were
I cannot strike at wretched Kernes, whose armes
I cannot taint with Feare. What's the Boy Malcolme?
I cannot tell: but I am faint,
I care not if thou dost for me as much.
I dare abide no longer.
I dare do all that may become a man,
I doubt some danger do's approach you neerely.
I dreamt last Night of the three weyward Sisters:
I drinke to th' generall ioy o'th' whole Table,
I goe, and it is done: the Bell inuites me.
I had else beene perfect;
I had liu'd a blessed time: for from this instant,
I had most need of Blessing, and Amen stuck in my throat
I had thought to haue let in some of all Professions, that
I haue a strange infirmity, which is nothing
I haue almost slipt the houre
I haue begun to plant thee, and will labour
I haue done no harme. But I remember now
I haue liu'd long enough: my way of life
I haue no rellish of them, but abound
I haue seene him do: How he solicites heauen
I haue thee not, and yet I see thee still.
I heare a knocking at the South entry:
I keepe a Seruant Feed. I will to morrow
I look'd toward Byrnane, and anon me thought
I must become a borrower of the Night,
I must not looke to haue: but in their steed,
I pray you schoole your selfe. But for your Husband,
I pray you?
I pull in Resolution, and begin
I put my selfe to thy Direction, and
I say, a mouing Groue
I see thee compast with thy Kingdomes Pearle,
I see thee yet, in forme as palpable,
I shall be counsail'd
I sheath againe vndeeded. There thou should'st be,
I should cut off the Nobles for their Lands,
I should report that which I say I saw,
I speake not as in absolute feare of you:
I stood, and heard them: But they did say their Prayers,
I take my leaue at once.
I thinke our Country sinkes beneath the yoake,
I thinke, but dare not speake
I throw my warlike Shield: Lay on Macduffe,
I will aduise you where to plant your selues,
I will not be affraid of Death and Bane,
I would applaud thee to the very Eccho,
I would not be the Villaine that thou think'st,
I would not wish them to a fairer death:
I would thou could'st.
I would, while it was smyling in my Face,
I'th' Ship-mans Card.
I, and since too, Murthers haue bene perform'd
If Charnell houses, and our Graues must send
If I say sooth, I must report they were
If good? why doe I yeeld to that suggestion,
If ill? why hath it giuen me earnest of successe,
If it finde Heauen, must finde it out to Night.
If this which he auouches, do's appeare,
If thou beest slaine, and with no stroake of mine,
If thou did'st it, thou art the Non-pareill
If trembling I inhabit then, protest mee
If you can looke into the Seedes of Time,
If you will take a homely mans aduice,
If you would graunt the time
Ile Charme the Ayre to giue a sound,
Ile be my selfe the Herbenger, and make ioyfull
Ile catch it ere it come to ground;
Ile come to you anon
Ile doe, Ile doe, and Ile doe
Ile dreyne him drie as Hay:
Ile guild the Faces of the Groomes withall,
Ile proue the lye thou speak'st.
Ile to England
In England, and in Ireland, not confessing
In Nature is a Tyranny: It hath beene
In Riddles, and Affaires of death;
In Thunder, Lightning, or in Raine?
In an Imperiall charge. But I shall craue your pardon:
In deepest consequence.
In doing it, payes it selfe.
In drops of sorrow. Sonnes, Kinsmen, Thanes,
In euery point twice done, and then done double,
In euils, to top Macbeth
In his Countreyes wracke, I know not:
In my Voluptuousnesse: Your Wiues, your Daughters,
In my most ill-composd Affection, such
In pious rage, the two delinquents teare,
In restlesse extasie.
In seeking to augment it, but still keepe
In such an Honor nam'd: What's more to do,
In the Cauldron boyle and bake:
In the affliction of these terrible Dreames,
In the diuision of each seuerall Crime,
In the great Hand of God I stand, and thence,
In the poysond Entrailes throw
In the vnshrinking station where he fought,
In this dayes Councell: but wee'le take to morrow.
In this slumbry agitation, besides her walking, and other
In viewing o're the rest o'th' selfe-same day,
In which addition, haile most worthy Thane,
In your nature, that you can let this goe?
Inchanting all that you put in.
Industrious Souldiership
Into his power: and modest Wisedome pluckes me
Into the Flame
Is Mortals cheefest Enemie.
Is added to her wounds. I thinke withall,
Is falne into the Seare, the yellow Leafe,
Is gone, to pray the Holy King, vpon his ayd
Is he dispatch'd?
Is left this Vault, to brag of.
Is not thy Master with him? who, wer't so,
Is often laudable, to do good sometime
Is ripe for shaking, and the Powres aboue
Is stopt, the very Source of it is stopt
Is the initiate feare, that wants hard vse:
Is there scarse ask'd for who, and good mens liues
Is thine, and my poore Countries to command:
Is this a Dagger, which I see before me,
Is to auoid the ayme. Therefore to Horse,
Is't Nights predominance, or the Dayes shame,
Is't farre you ride?
It had bene as a gap in our great Feast,
It hath no end
It is a Banquet to me. Let's after him,
It is a peerelesse Kinsman.
It is concluded: Banquo, thy Soules flight,
It is the bloody Businesse, which informes
It is too full o'th' Milke of humane kindnesse,
It selfe, for being there
It should not stand in thy Posterity,
It was for Malcolme, and for Donalbane
It weepes, it bleeds, and each new day a gash
It were done quickly: If th' Assassination
It would be my disgrace, and your discomfort.
Keepe it not from me, quickly let me haue it
Keepes still in Dunsinane, and will indure
Key.
Kinde Gentlemen, your paines are registred,
Knock, Knock, Knock. Who's there
Knock, Knock, Knock. Who's there? 'Faith here's an English
Knock, Knock. Neuer at quiet: What are you? but this
Knock, knock. Who's there in th' other Deuils Name?
Knock.
Knock.
Knock.
Knock.
Knock.
Knocke within.
Knocke.
Knocke.
Knocke.
Know, that it was he, in the times past,
Laugh to scorne
Layes blame vpon his promise. Pleas't your Highnesse
Leade our first Battell. Worthy Macduffe, and wee
Least our old Robes sit easier then our new
Leaue all the rest to me.
Lecherie, Sir, it prouokes, and vnprouokes: it prouokes
Led you to Duncan. O, these flawes and starts
Lent vs good Seyward, and ten thousand men,
Let euery man be master of his time,
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable Crests,
Let not Light see my black and deepe desires:
Let not my Iealousies, be your Dishonors,
Let this pernitious houre,
Let vs be beaten, if we cannot fight
Let vs toward the King: thinke vpon
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo,
Let's make vs Med'cines of our great Reuenge,
Let's not consort with them:
Letting I dare not, wait vpon I would,
Life's but a walking Shadow, a poore Player,
Like Elues and Fairies in a Ring,
Like Syllable of Dolour
Like a Hell-broth, boyle and bubble
Like our strange Garments, cleaue not to their mould,
Like the leauing it. Hee dy'de,
Like the poore Cat i'th' Addage
Listning their feare, I could not say Amen,
Liuer of Blaspheming Iew,
Liues in the English Court, and is receyu'd
Lizards legge, and Howlets wing:
Lo you, heere she comes: This is her very guise, and vpon
Looke how she rubbes her hands
Looke like the time, beare welcome in your Eye,
Looke on't againe, I dare not
Looke what I haue
Loues for his owne ends, not for you.
Loyall, and Neutrall, in a moment? No man:
Luxurious, Auaricious, False, Deceitfull,
Macbeth does murther Sleepe, the innocent Sleepe,
Macbeth doth come
Macbeth shall neuer vanquish'd be, vntill
Macduff is fled to England
Macduff, Rosse, Angus, and Attendants.
Macduffe liues in disgrace. Sir, can you tell
Make Warre with Mankinde
Make it their Walke.
Make the Grewell thicke, and slab.
Make we our March towards Birnan.
Makes vs heare something
Making the Greene one, Red.
Malcolme, and Donalbaine the Kings two Sonnes
Mallice domestique, forraine Leuie, nothing,
Mark Anthonies was by Caesar. He chid the Sisters,
Masking the Businesse from the common Eye,
May reade strange matters, to beguile the time.
May rush, and seize vs? Let's away,
May soone returne to this our suffering Country,
May they not be my Oracles as well,
Meet we the Med'cine of the sickly Weale,
Meete me i'th' Morning: thither he
Meeting were bare without it.
Melted, as breath into the Winde.
Menteth, Cathnes, Angus, and Soldiers Marching.
Mercifull Powers, restraine in me the cursed thoughts
Might be the be all, and the end all. Heere,
Might haue beene mine: onely I haue left to say,
Might yet enkindle you vnto the Crowne,
Mine Eyes are made the fooles o'th' other Sences,
More hatefull to mine eare
More is thy due, then more then all can pay
More needs she the Diuine, then the Physitian:
More potent then the first.
More shall they speake: for now I am bent to know
More suffer, and more sundry wayes then euer,
Most sacrilegious Murther hath broke ope
Moues like a Ghost. Thou sowre and firme-set Earth
Musicke and a Song. Blacke Spirits, &c.
Musicke, and a Song.
Musicke. The Witches Dance, and vanish.
Must be prouided for: and you shall put
Must minister to himselfe
Must not be measur'd by his worth, for then
My Bosome franchis'd, and Allegeance cleare,
My Father as he slept, I had don't.
My Father is not dead for all your saying
My Gashes cry for helpe
My Genius is rebuk'd, as it is said
My Husband?
My Thought, whose Murther yet is but fantasticall,
My Wife and Childrens Ghosts will haunt me still:
My dull Braine was wrought with things forgotten.
My minde she ha's mated, and amaz'd my sight.
My voice is in my Sword, thou bloodier Villaine
Napkins enow about you, here you'le sweat for't.
Nature seemes dead, and wicked Dreames abuse
New Widdowes howle, new Orphans cry, new sorowes
New hatch'd toth' wofull time.
No Sonne of mine succeeding: if't be so,
No lesse in truth then life. My first false speaking
No lesse to haue done so: Let me enfold thee,
No mans Life was to be trusted with them
No more then to be Cawdor. Say from whence
No sooner Iustice had, with Valour arm'd,
No teeth for th' present. Get thee gone, to morrow
Nor Heauen peepe through the Blanket of the darke,
Nor would we deigne him buriall of his men,
Norway himselfe, with terrible numbers,
Nose of Turke, and Tartars lips:
Not beare the knife my selfe. Besides, this Duncane
Not cast aside so soone
Not for their owne demerits, but for mine
Not i'th' worst ranke of Manhood, say't,
Not pay thee
Not vnaccompanied, inuest him onely,
Nothing afeard of what thy selfe didst make
Nothing but Males. Will it not be receiu'd,
Nothing in his Life became him,
Nothing in loue: Now do's he feele his Title
Now goe to the Doore, and stay there till we call.
Now good digestion waite on Appetite,
Now haue you consider'd of my speeches:
Now is the time of helpe: your eye in Scotland
Now minutely Reuolts vpbraid his Faith-breach:
Now spurres the lated Traueller apace,
Now wee'l together, and the chance of goodnesse
Now, if you haue a station in the file,
O Banquo, Banquo, Our Royall Master's murther'd
O worthyest Cousin,
Of Byrnan rise, and our high plac'd Macbeth
Of Kernes and Gallowgrosses is supply'd,
Of Natures Germaine, tumble altogether,
Of Noble hauing, and of Royall hope,
Of Treasonous Mallice
Of all the Gentry; there is Seywards Sonne,
Of direst Crueltie: make thick my blood,
Of dyre Combustion, and confus'd Euents,
Of goodly thousands. But for all this,
Of his owne Chamber, and vs'd their very Daggers,
Of horrid Hell, can come a Diuell more damn'd
Of many Kings. If there come truth from them,
Of many worthy Fellowes, that were out,
Of our great quell
Of sorryest Fancies your Companions making,
Of that darke houre: resolue your selues apart,
Of the Imperiall Theame. I thanke you Gentlemen:
Of the most Pious Edward, with such grace,
Of the rauin'd salt Sea sharke:
Of this dead Butcher, and his Fiend-like Queene;
Of your meere Owne. All these are portable,
Oftner vpon her knees, then on her feet,
Oh, oh, oh
Old Seyward with ten thousand warlike men
On all deseruers. From hence to Envernes,
On mine owne sword? whiles I see liues, the gashes
On which I must fall downe, or else o're-leape,
One of my fellowes had the speed of him;
Onely for them, and mine eternall Iewell
Onely it spoyles the pleasure of the time
Onely to harrold thee into his sight,
Open Lockes, who euer knockes.
Or did lyne the Rebell with hidden helpe,
Or else my Sword with an vnbattered edge
Or else worth all the rest: I see thee still;
Or from our Masters
Or haue we eaten on the insane Root,
Or memorize another Golgotha,
Or not those in Commission yet return'd?
Or shew the glory of our Art?
Or the Hare, the Lyon:
Or weare it on my Sword; yet my poore Country
Our Bosome interest: Goe pronounce his present death,
Our Honors in these flattering streames,
Our Hostesse keepes her State, but in best time
Our Offices, and what we haue to doe,
Our Teares are not yet brew'd
Our duties, did his welcome pay.
Our eldest, Malcolme, whom we name hereafter,
Our feares do make vs Traitors
Our feares in Banquo sticke deepe,
Our free Hearts each to other
Our knocking ha's awak'd him: here he comes
Our lacke is nothing but our leaue. Macbeth
Our pleasure?
Our point of second meeting.
Our seperated fortune shall keepe vs both the safer:
Our setting downe befor't
Our will became the seruant to defect,
Out-run the pawser, Reason. Here lay Duncan,
Painted vpon a pole, and vnder-writ,
Pale Heccats Offrings: and wither'd Murther,
Particular addition, from the Bill,
Past in probation with you:
Peace, the Charme's wound vp.
Performe what you command vs
Pertaines to you alone
Plucke from the Memory a rooted Sorrow,
Point against Point, rebellious Arme 'gainst Arme,
Poore Birds they are not set for:
Porter of Hell Gate, hee should haue old turning the
Posters of the Sea and Land,
Poure the sweet Milke of Concord, into Hell,
Prepares for some attempt of Warre
Present him Eminence, both with Eye and Tongue:
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed Braine?
Producing forth the cruell Ministers
Profit againe should hardly draw me heere.
Promis'd no lesse to them
Protest their first of Manhood
Put Rancours in the Vessell of my Peace
Put on their Instruments: Receiue what cheere you may,
Put on with holy Prayers, and 'tis spoken
Quarrels vniust against the Good and Loyall,
Question enrages him: at once, goodnight.
Rather then so, come Fate into the Lyst,
Raze out the written troubles of the Braine,
Rebellious dead, rise neuer till the Wood
Reigne in this Kingdome?
Remaines in danger of her former Tooth.
Remoue from her the meanes of all annoyance,
Retreat, and Flourish. Enter with Drumme and Colours, Malcolm,
Returning were as tedious as go ore:
Retyre we to our Chamber:
Reuenges burne in them: for their deere causes
Ring the Alarum Bell, blow Winde, come wracke,
Ring the Alarum Bell: Murther, and Treason,
Roote of Hemlocke, digg'd i'th' darke:
Rosse, Thanes, & Soldiers.
Run away I pray you.
Sauagely slaughter'd: To relate the manner
Sawcy, and ouer-bold, how did you dare
Say to the King, the knowledge of the Broyle,
Say, Thus did Banquo
Scaena Quarta.
Scaena Sexta.
Scaena Tertia.
Scaena Tertia.
Scarsely haue coueted what was mine owne.
Scena Quarta.
Scena Quarta.
Scena Quarta.
Scena Quinta.
Scena Quinta.
Scena Quinta.
Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
Scena Septima.
Scena Septima.
Scena Sexta.
Scena Sexta.
Scena Tertia.
Scena Tertia.
Scena Tertia.
Scotland hath Foysons, to fill vp your will
See, and then speake your selues: awake, awake,
Seemes bruited. Let me finde him Fortune,
Seize vpon Fife; giue to th' edge o'th' Sword
Send out moe Horses, skirre the Country round,
Senit sounded. Enter Macbeth as King, Lady Lenox, Rosse, Lords,
Seruice ouer the Stage. Then enter Macbeth
Seyton, send out: Doctor, the Thanes flye from me:
Seyton?
Seyward,
Seywards Sonne,
Shake my fell purpose, nor keepe peace betweene
Shake off this Downey sleepe, Deaths counterfeit,
Shakes so my single state of Man,
Shall Sunne that Morrow see.
Shall be a Fume, and the Receit of Reason
Shall be the Mawes of Kytes
Shall blow the horrid deed in euery eye,
Shall come against him.
Shall draw him on to his Confusion.
Shall ere haue power vpon thee. Then fly false Thanes,
Shall harme Macbeth.
Shall haue more vices then it had before,
Shall he dwindle, peake, and pine:
Shall liue the Lease of Nature, pay his breath
Shall neuer sagge with doubt, nor shake with feare.
Shall neuer tremble. Or be aliue againe,
Shall not be long but Ile be heere againe:
Shall raise such Artificiall Sprights,
Shall sleepe no more: Macbeth shall sleepe no more
Shall take vpon's what else remaines to do,
Shall we well meet them, that way are they comming
Shall with my Cosin your right Noble Sonne
She strike vpon the Bell. Get thee to bed.
Shee'le close, and be her selfe, whilest our poore Mallice
Shew'd like a Rebells Whore: but all's too weake:
Shipwracking Stormes, and direfull Thunders:
Should be without regard: what's done, is done
Showghes, Water-Rugs, and Demy-Wolues are clipt
Signifying nothing.
Since that the truest Issue of thy Throne
Sing within. Come away, come away, &c.
Sirrha, a word with you: Attend those men
Sits in Foggy cloud, and stayes for me.
Skarfe vp the tender Eye of pittifull Day,
Sleepe shall neyther Night nor Day
Sleepe that knits vp the rauel'd Sleeue of Care,
Sliuer'd in the Moones Ecclipse:
Smells wooingly here: no Iutty frieze,
So all haile Macbeth, and Banquo
So all men doe, from hence toth' Pallace Gate
So braine-sickly of things: Goe get some Water,
So cleere in his great Office, that his Vertues
So from that Spring, whence comfort seem'd to come,
So great a day as this is cheapely bought
So humbly take my leaue
So poorely in your thoughts
So prythee goe with me.
So runnes against all reason
So should he looke, that seemes to speake things strange
So thankes to all at once, and to each one,
So they doubly redoubled stroakes vpon the Foe:
So wearie with Disasters, tugg'd with Fortune,
So were their Daggers, which vnwip'd, we found
So wither'd, and so wilde in their attyre,
Sodaine, Malicious, smacking of euery sinne
Soldiers.
Some say hee's mad: Others, that lesser hate him,
Some say, the Earth was Feuorous,
Something wicked this way comes:
Soundly inuite him) his two Chamberlaines
Speake then to me, who neyther begge, nor feare
Speake, I charge you.
Spightfull, and wrathfull, who (as others do)
Stand aye accursed in the Kalender.
Stand not vpon the order of your going,
Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
Stands not within the prospect of beleefe,
Steep'd in the Colours of their Trade; their Daggers
Stept in so farre, that should I wade no more,
Still to returne your owne
Stones haue beene knowne to moue, & Trees to speake:
Stop vp th' accesse, and passage to Remorse,
Strange Images of death, as thick as Tale
Strange Schreemes of Death,
Strange things I haue in head, that will to hand,
Striding the blast, or Heauens Cherubin, hors'd
Strike heauen on the face, that it resounds
Strong both against the Deed: Then, as his Host,
Such I account thy loue. Art thou affear'd
Such sanctity hath Heauen giuen his hand,
Suspition of the deed
Sweltred Venom sleeping got,
T' appease an angry God
Take any shape but that, and my firme Nerues
Takes from his high respect. Thither Macduffe
Taylor come hither, for stealing out of a French Hose:
Tell thee, Macduffe was from his Mothers womb
Ten thousand Dollars, to our generall vse
Th' Vsurpers cursed head: the time is free:
Th' effect, and hit. Come to my Womans Brests,
Th' expedition of my violent Loue
Th' vnguarded Duncan? What not put vpon
Th' vntimely emptying of the happy Throne,
That Chambers will be safe
That Christendome giues out
That Darknesse does the face of Earth intombe,
That Death and Nature doe contend about them,
That Function is smother'd in surmise,
That I did kill them
That I may powre my Spirits in thine Eare,
That I may tell pale-hearted Feare, it lies;
That I require a clearenesse; and with him,
That I to your assistance doe make loue,
That I would set my Life on any Chance,
That Memorie, the Warder of the Braine,
That Nature giues way to in repose.
That Vulture in you, to deuoure so many
That by the helpe of these (with him aboue)
That call's vpon vs, by the Grace of Grace,
That clogges me with this Answer
That croakes the fatall entrance of Duncan
That did oppose my will. Better Macbeth,
That euery minute of his being, thrusts
That feares a painted Deuill. If he doe bleed,
That fled the Snares of watchfull Tyranny,
That ha's a name. But there's no bottome, none
That had a heart to loue; and in that heart,
That had he Duncans Sonnes vnder his Key,
That hast no lesse deseru'd, nor must be knowne
That he seemes wrapt withall: to me you speake not.
That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a making:
That keepe her from her rest
That keepe the word of promise to our eare,
That lies like truth. Feare not, till Byrnane Wood
That looke not like th' Inhabitants o'th' Earth,
That made you breake this enterprize to me?
That man may question? you seeme to vnderstand me,
That most may clayme this argument for ours?
That my keene Knife see not the Wound it makes,
That no compunctious visitings of Nature
That palter with vs in a double sence,
That shake vs Nightly: Better be with the dead,
That should applaud againe. Pull't off I say,
That speake him full of Grace.
That speake my salutation in their minds:
That stay his Cure: their malady conuinces
That strike beside vs
That struts and frets his houre vpon the Stage,
That such a hideous Trumpet calls to parley
That suffer in exposure; let vs meet,
That summons thee to Heauen, or to Hell.
That swiftest Wing of Recompence is slow,
That takes the Reason Prisoner?
That teares shall drowne the winde. I haue no Spurre
That tend on mortall thoughts, vnsex me here,
That the maleuolence of Fortune, nothing
That the proportion both of thanks, and payment,
That they haue don't?
That this great King may kindly say,
That trace him in his Line. No boasting like a Foole,
That two-fold Balles, and trebble Scepters carry.
That was not borne of Woman? Such a one
That were most precious to me: Did heauen looke on,
That were the Slaues of drinke, and thralles of sleepe?
That when the Braines were out, the man would dye,
That when they shall be open'd, blacke Macbeth
That which you are, my thoughts cannot transpose;
That will with due decision make vs know
That would be howl'd out in the desert ayre,
That would make good of bad, and Friends of Foes.
That would'st thou holily: would'st not play false,
That writes them all alike: and so of men.
That you are so
That you doe lye so late?
The Baby of a Girle. Hence horrible shadow,
The Castle of Macduff, I will surprize.
The Cesterne of my Lust, and my Desire
The Cry is still, they come: our Castles strength
The Curtain'd sleepe: Witchcraft celebrates
The Deuill to his Fellow, and delight
The Eye winke at the Hand: yet let that bee,
The Handle toward my Hand? Come, let me clutch thee:
The Haruest is your owne
The House-keeper, the Hunter, euery one
The Instruments of Darknesse tell vs Truths,
The Instruments: who wrought with them:
The Interim hauing weigh'd it, let vs speake
The Life o'th' Building
The Lords anoynted Temple, and stole thence
The Loue that followes vs, sometime is our trouble,
The Night is long, that neuer findes the Day.
The Noble Thanes do brauely in the Warre,
The Pitfall, nor the Gin
The Prince of Cumberland: which Honor must
The Rauen himselfe is hoarse,
The Sacred Store-house of his Predecessors,
The Soueraignty will fall vpon Macbeth
The Spring, the Head, the Fountaine of your Blood
The Sword of our slaine Kings: yet do not feare,
The Table round. There's blood vpon thy face
The Temple-haunting Barlet does approue,
The Thane of Cawdor, began a dismall Conflict,
The Title, is affear'd. Far thee well Lord,
The Tyrants people, on both sides do fight,
The Victorie fell on vs
The Water of my Land, finde her Disease,
The West yet glimmers with some streakes of Day.
The Wine of Life is drawne, and the meere Lees
The Wood began to moue
The arm'd Rhinoceros, or th' Hircan Tiger,
The ayre is delicate.
The ayre nimbly and sweetly recommends it selfe
The close contriuer of all harmes,
The clowdy Messenger turnes me his backe,
The day almost it selfe professes yours,
The death of each dayes Life, sore Labors Bath,
The deepe damnation of his taking off:
The diuell damne thee blacke, thou cream-fac'd Loone:
The fatall Bell-man, which giues the stern'st good-night.
The firstlings of my hand. And euen now
The fit is momentary, vpon a thought
The fits o'th' Season. I dare not speake much further,
The flighty purpose neuer is o're-tooke
The future in the instant
The gallopping of Horse. Who was't came by?
The generall cause, or is it a Fee-griefe
The great Doomes Image: Malcolme, Banquo,
The great assay of Art. But at his touch,
The greatest is behinde. Thankes for your paines.
The healing Benediction. With this strange vertue,
The hearing of my Wife, with your approach:
The illnesse should attend it. What thou would'st highly,
The least a Death to Nature
The meanes that makes vs Strangers
The meere dispaire of Surgery, he cures,
The minde I sway by, and the heart I beare,
The moment on't, for't must be done to Night,
The multiplying Villanies of Nature
The multitudinous Seas incarnardine,
The neere in blood, the neerer bloody
The newes of thy successe: and when he reades
The newest state
The numbers of our Hoast, and make discouery
The obscure Bird clamor'd the liue-long Night.
The powre of man: For none of woman borne
The repetition in a Womans eare,
The rest, that are within the note of expectation,
The secret'st man of Blood. What is the night?
The shard-borne Beetle, with his drowsie hums,
The sinne of my Ingratitude euen now
The sleepers of the House? speake, speake
The sleepie Groomes with blood
The subiect of our Watch
The sweeter welcome:
The taints, and blames I laide vpon my selfe,
The time ha's beene, my sences would haue cool'd
The very firstlings of my heart shall be
The way to dusty death. Out, out, breefe Candle,
The which no sooner had his Prowesse confirm'd
Their Candles are all out: take thee that too.
Their Hands and Faces were all badg'd with blood,
Their cruell Parricide, filling their hearers
Their drenched Natures lyes as in a Death,
Their heads to their Foundations: Though the treasure
Then Ile sit downe: Giue me some Wine, fill full:
Then Summer-seeming Lust: and it hath bin
Then any is in hell
Then be thou iocund: ere the Bat hath flowne
Then by destruction dwell in doubtfull ioy.
Then is his Fathers, must embrace the fate
Then on the torture of the Minde to lye
Then pitty for Mischance
Then such a murther is
Then such an one to reigne
Then tearmes can giue thee out.
Then the Charme is firme and good.
Then wishest should be vndone. High thee hither,
Then would make vp his Message
Thence to be wrencht with an vnlineall Hand,
There hangs a vap'rous drop, profound,
There is nor flying hence, nor tarrying here.
There shall be done a deed of dreadfull note
There the growne Serpent lyes, the worme that's fled
There would be hands vplifted in my right:
There would haue beene a time for such a word:
There's Husbandry in Heauen,
There's not a one of them but in his house
There's nothing serious in Mortalitie:
These Euils thou repeat'st vpon thy selfe,
They haue made themselues, and that their fitnesse now
They hayl'd him Father to a Line of Kings.
They must lye there: goe carry them, and smeare
They presently amend.
They say he parted well, and paid his score,
They smack of Honor both: Goe get him Surgeons.
They were all strooke for thee: Naught that I am,
Thine owne liues meanes: Then 'tis most like,
Things at the worst will cease, or else climbe vpward,
Things bad begun, make strong themselues by ill:
Things haue bin strangely borne. The gracious Duncan
Things that doe sound so faire? i'th' name of truth
This Diamond he greetes your Wife withall,
This I made good to you, in our last conference,
This Nights great Businesse into my dispatch,
This Tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
This comfort with the like. But I haue words
This deed Ile do, before this purpose coole,
This ignorant present, and I feele now
This is the Ayre-drawne-Dagger which you said
This is the Doore
This is the very painting of your feare:
This supernaturall solliciting
Those clamorous Harbingers of Blood, & Death.
Those he commands, moue onely in command,
Those precious Motiues, those strong knots of Loue,
Those that we bury, backe; our Monuments
Thou Lilly-liuer'd Boy. What Soldiers, Patch?
Thou com'st to vse thy Tongue: thy Story quickly
Thou hast harp'd my feare aright. But one word more
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
Thou know'st, that Banquo and his Fleans liues
Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going,
Thou maruell'st at my words: but hold thee still,
Thou may'st reuenge. O Slaue!
Thou other Gold-bound-brow, is like the first:
Thou playd'st most fowly for't: yet it was saide
Thou seest the Heauens, as troubled with mans Act,
Thou'dst neuer Feare the Net, nor Lime,
Though Byrnane wood be come to Dunsinane,
Though Castles topple on their Warders heads:
Though Pallaces, and Pyramids do slope
Though all things foule, would wear the brows of grace
Though bladed Corne be lodg'd, & Trees blown downe,
Though his Barke cannot be lost,
Though in your state of Honor I am perfect;
Though you vntye the Windes, and let them fight
Thoughts speculatiue, their vnsure hopes relate,
Thould'st haue, great Glamys, that which cryes,
Threatens his bloody Stage: byth' Clock 'tis Day,
Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,
Thriftlesse Ambition, that will rauen vp
Throbs to know one thing: Tell me, if your Art
Thunder 3 Apparation, a Childe Crowned, with a Tree in his hand.
Thunder and Lightning. Enter three Witches.
Thunder. 1. Apparation, an Armed Head.
Thunder. 2 Apparition, a Bloody Childe.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches, meeting Hecat.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches.
Thus doe goe, about, about,
Thus thou must doe, if thou haue it;
Thus to mine Eyes. Now o're the one halfe World
Thy Crowne do's seare mine Eye-bals. And thy haire
Thy Letters haue transported me beyond
Thy Selfe and Office deaftly show.
Thy bones are marrowlesse, thy blood is cold:
Thy goary lockes at me
Thy hope ends heere
Thy personall Venture in the Rebels sight,
Thy prayses in his Kingdomes great defence,
Thy very stones prate of my where-about,
Till Birnane Forrest come to Dunsinane
Till Byrnane wood remoue to Dunsinane,
Till Famine and the Ague eate them vp:
Till Famine cling thee: If thy speech be sooth,
Till he disbursed, at Saint Colmes ynch,
Till he vnseam'd him from the Naue toth' Chops,
Till hee fac'd the Slaue:
Till seuen at Night, to make societie
Till that Bellona's Bridegroome, lapt in proofe,
Till thou applaud the deed: Come, seeling Night,
Time, and the Houre, runs through the roughest Day
To Crown my thoughts with Acts: be it thoght & done:
To Trade, and Trafficke with Macbeth,
To act in safetie. There is none but he,
To adde the death of you
To alter fauor, euer is to feare:
To be his Purueyor: But he rides well,
To be inuested
To be the same in thine owne Act, and Valour,
To be thus, is nothing, but to be safely thus
To catch the neerest way. Thou would'st be great,
To countenance this horror. Ring the Bell.
To cry, hold, hold.
To cure this deadly greefe
To dew the Soueraigne Flower, and drowne the Weeds:
To do worse to you, were fell Cruelty,
To doffe their dire distresses
To doubt th' Equiuocation of the Fiend,
To feeling, as to sight? or art thou but
To finde the Mindes construction in the Face.
To fright you thus. Me thinkes I am too sauage:
To gayne the timely Inne, and neere approches
To giue Obedience, where 'tis truly ow'd:
To giue thee from our Royall Master thanks,
To grace vs with your Royall Company?
To halfe a Soule, and to a Notion craz'd,
To haue thee crown'd withall.
To heare a Night-shrieke, and my Fell of haire
To heare the men deny't. So that I say,
To his home before vs: Faire and Noble Hostesse
To kill their gracious Father? Damned Fact,
To kisse the ground before young Malcolmes feet,
To know it further. Feares and scruples shake vs:
To leaue no Rubs nor Botches in the Worke:
To make me hunger more, that I should forge
To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
To make their Audit at your Highnesse pleasure,
To make them Kings, the Seedes of Banquo Kings.
To mend it, or be rid on't
To morrow, and to morrow, and to morrow,
To offer vp a weake, poore innocent Lambe
To one of woman borne
To ouertake thee. Would thou hadst lesse deseru'd,
To our owne lips. Hee's heere in double trust;
To plague th' Inuenter, this euen-handed Iustice
To pricke the sides of my intent, but onely
To ratifie the Worke) we may againe
To reade them.
To sawcy doubts, and feares. But Banquo's safe?
To say I haue done no harme?
To shew an vnfelt Sorrow, is an Office
To spight the World
To take vpon you what is yours: you may
To th' amazement of mine eyes that look'd vpon't.
To the direction iust
To the last Syllable of Recorded time:
To the succeeding Royalty he leaues
To their deafe pillowes will discharge their Secrets:
To those that know me. Come, loue and health to all,
To throw away the dearest thing he ow'd,
To thy good Truth, and Honor. Diuellish Macbeth,
To time, and mortall Custome. Yet my Hart
To wake Northumberland, and warlike Seyward,
To weare a Heart so white.
To what I aske you
To what they were before. My pretty Cosine,
To you they haue shew'd some truth
Toad, that vnder cold stone,
Told by an Ideot, full of sound and fury
Tongue nor Heart cannot conceiue, nor name thee
Too terrible for the eare. The times has bene,
Tooke off her life. This, and what need full else
Towards which, aduance the warre.
Treason ha's done his worst: nor Steele, nor Poyson,
Turn'd wilde in nature, broke their stalls, flong out,
Vaulting Ambition, which ore-leapes it selfe,
Vnder a hand accurs'd
Vnder my Battlements. Come you Spirits,
Vnfixe his earth-bound Root? Sweet boadments, good:
Vnknowne to Woman, neuer was forsworne,
Vnlesse the deed go with it. From this moment,
Vnmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refraine,
Vnreall mock'ry hence. Why so, being gone
Vnsafe the while, that wee must laue
Vnspeake mine owne detraction. Heere abiure
Vntimely ript
Vnto a dismall, and a Fatall end.
Vnto our gentle sences
Vpon a dwarfish Theefe
Vpon her skinnie Lips: you should be Women,
Vpon his Death?
Vpon my Head they plac'd a fruitlesse Crowne,
Vpon the Corner of the Moone
Vpon the foot of Motion
Vpon the next Tree shall thou hang aliue
Vpon the sightlesse Curriors of the Ayre,
Vpon their Pillowes: they star'd, and were distracted,
Vpon this blasted Heath you stop our way
Vprore the vniuersall peace, confound
Vsing those Thoughts, which should indeed haue dy'd
Wake Duncan with thy knocking:
Wanton in fulnesse, seeke to hide themselues
Was a most Sainted-King: the Queene that bore thee,
Was by a Mowsing Owle hawkt at, and kill'd
Was he not borne of woman? The Spirits that know
Was heauie on me. Thou art so farre before,
Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
Was neuer call'd to beare my part,
Was not that Nobly done? I, and wisely too:
Was once thought honest: you haue lou'd him well,
Was pittied of Macbeth: marry he was dead:
Was this vpon my selfe. What I am truly
We are comming thither: Gracious England hath
We are yet but yong indeed.
We are your guest to night
We courst him at the heeles, and had a purpose
We haue willing Dames enough: there cannot be
We might haue met them darefull, beard to beard,
We still haue iudgement heere, that we but teach
We will establish our Estate vpon
We will keepe our selfe till Supper time alone:
We will performe in measure, time, and place:
We will require her welcome
We would spend it in some words vpon that Businesse,
Wearie Seu'nights, nine times nine,
Wee'l haue thee, as our rarer Monsters are
Wee'l heare our selues againe.
Wee'ld iumpe the life to come. But in these Cases,
Weepe our sad bosomes empty
Were on the Quarry of these murther'd Deere
Were poore, and single Businesse, to contend
Were the grac'd person of our Banquo present:
Were they not forc'd with those that should be ours,
What 'twere to kill a Father: So should Fleans.
What Hands are here? hah: they pluck out mine Eyes.
What Rubarb, Cyme, or what Purgatiue drugge
What are these faces?
What cannot you and I performe vpon
What euer I shall thinke
What good could they pretend?
What hath chanc'd: and at more time,
What hath quench'd them, hath giuen me fire.
What is this, that rises like the issue of a King,
What is your tidings?
What is't that moues your Highnesse?
What is't you do?
What know, beleeue; and what I can redresse,
What man, ne're pull your hat vpon your browes:
What thou art promis'd: yet doe I feare thy Nature,
What we shall say we haue, and what we owe:
What will the Line stretch out to'th' cracke of Doome?
What will these hands ne're be cleane? No more o'that
What you haue spoke, it may be so perchance.
What, All my pretty Chickens, and their Damme
What, in our House?
When 'tis, it shall make Honor for you
When I behold: Seyton, I say, this push
When I shall treade vpon the Tyrants head,
When all that is within him, do's condemne
When first they put the Name of King vpon me,
When liuing Light should kisse it?
When mine is blanch'd with feare
When now I thinke you can behold such sights,
When shalt thou see thy wholsome dayes againe?
When the Battaile's lost, and wonne
When therewithall, we shall haue cause of State,
When they did say God blesse vs
When those that gaue the Thane of Cawdor to me,
When we haue mark'd with blood those sleepie two
When you durst do it, then you were a man:
Where I did finde my doubts.
Where euery day I turne the Leafe,
Where got'st thou that Goose-looke
Where he bestowes himselfe?
Where hearing should not latch them
Where our Fate hid in an augure hole,
Where our desire is got without content:
Where sighes, and groanes, and shrieks that rent the ayre
Where such as thou may'st finde him
Where the Norweyan Banners flowt the Skie,
Where they must breed, and haunt: I haue obseru'd
Where we are, there's Daggers in mens smiles;
Where we lay, our Chimneys were blowne downe,
Where-euer, in your sightlesse substances,
Wherein you drest your selfe? Hath it slept since?
Wherewith your Maiestie loades our House:
Whether he was combin'd with those of Norway,
Whether it was his wisedome, or his feare
Whether they liue, or dye.
Which Fate and Metaphysicall ayde doth seeme
Which I haue heauily borne, there ran a Rumour
Which can interpret farther: Onely I say
Which else should free haue wrought
Which he deserues to loose.
Which held you so vnder fortune,
Which in his Death were perfect
Which is too nie your person. Heauen preserue you,
Which keepes me pale. Light thickens,
Which might appall the Diuell
Which must be acted, ere they may be scand
Which neu'r shooke hands, nor bad farwell to him,
Which now sutes with it. Whiles I threat, he liues:
Which often since my heere remaine in England,
Which outwardly ye shew? My Noble Partner
Which shall possesse them with the heauiest sound
Which shall to all our Nights, and Dayes to come,
Which shewes me many more: and some I see,
Which should be thine, or his: silenc'd with that,
Which smoak'd with bloody execution
Which steales it selfe, when there's no mercie left.
Which still we thanke as Loue. Herein I teach you,
Which the Eye feares, when it is done to see.
Which the false man do's easie.
Which the poore heart would faine deny, and dare not.
Which thou dost glare with
Which thou esteem'st the Ornament of Life,
Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
Which was to my beleefe witnest the rather,
Which weighes vpon the heart?
Which would be fear'd. 'Tis much he dares,
Which would be planted newly with the time,
Which would be worne now in their newest glosse,
Which you thought had been our innocent selfe.
While then, God be with you.
While you performe your Antique round:
Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came Missiues from
Whiles Nights black Agents to their Prey's doe rowse.
Whispers the o're-fraught heart, and bids it breake
Whither indeed, before they heere approach
Who (as 'tis thought) by selfe and violent hands,
Who I my selfe struck downe: and thence it is,
Who almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
Who can impresse the Forrest, bid the Tree
Who cannot want the thought, how monstrous
Who chafes, who frets, or where Conspirers are:
Who comes here?
Who dares do more, is none
Who did report, that very frankly hee
Who like a good and hardie Souldier fought
Who should against his Murtherer shut the doore,
Who weare our Health but sickly in his Life,
Who's there?
Who, may I rather challenge for vnkindnesse,
Whole as the Marble, founded as the Rocke,
Whom the vile Blowes and Buffets of the World
Whom we inuite, to see vs Crown'd at Scone.
Whom we, to gayne our peace, haue sent to peace,
Whom you may say (if't please you) Fleans kill'd,
Whose absence is no lesse materiall to me,
Whose being I doe feare: and vnder him,
Whose care is gone before, to bid vs welcome:
Whose execution takes your Enemie off,
Whose hearts are absent too
Whose horrid Image doth vnfixe my Heire,
Whose howle's his Watch, thus with his stealthy pace,
Whose loues I may not drop, but wayle his fall,
Whose voyces I desire alowd with mine.
Why Chance may Crowne me,
Why by the verities on thee made good,
Why did you bring these Daggers from the place?
Why do you make such faces? When all's done
Why do you shew me this? - A fourth? Start eyes!
Why doe you dresse me in borrowed Robes?
Why in that rawnesse left you Wife, and Childe?
Why sinkes that Caldron? & what noise is this?
Why what care I, if thou canst nod, speake too.
Will I with Wine, and Wassell, so conuince,
Will all great Neptunes Ocean wash this blood
Will cheere me euer, or dis-eate me now.
Will come, to know his Destinie.
Will laugh a Siedge to scorne: Heere let them lye,
Will pleade like Angels, Trumpet-tongu'd against
Will seeme as pure as Snow, and the poore State
Winne vs with honest Trifles, to betray's
Wip'd the blacke Scruples, reconcil'd my thoughts
Witches Mummey, Maw, and Gulfe
Witches vanish.
With Snores. I haue drugg'd their Possets,
With Tarquins rauishing sides, towards his designe
With a new Gorgon. Doe not bid me speake:
With an vntitled Tyrant, bloody Sceptred,
With bare-fac'd power sweepe him from my sight,
With blood of thine already
With furbusht Armes, and new supplyes of men,
With his surcease, Successe: that but this blow
With my confinelesse harmes
With other Graces weigh'd
With strange inuention. But of that to morrow,
With such Prophetique greeting?
With them they thinke on: things without all remedie
With thy keene Sword impresse, as make me bleed:
With twenty mortall murthers on their crownes,
With twenty trenched gashes on his head;
Within my Swords length set him, if he scape
Within the Volume of which Time, I haue seene
Within the belt of Rule
Within this houre, at most,
Within this three Mile may you see it comming.
Without leaue-taking. I pray you,
Without my stirre
Without our speciall wonder? You make me strange
Wooll of Bat, and Tongue of Dogge:
Words to the heat of deedes too cold breath giues.
Would at a dismall Treatise rowze, and stirre
Would create Soldiours, make our women fight,
Would haue inform'd for preparation
Would he were heere: to all, and him we thirst,
Would murther as it fell.
Would scowre these English hence: hear'st y of them?
Would they had stay'd
Would to the bleeding, and the grim Alarme
Wrackt, as homeward he did come.
Yet Grace must still looke so
Yet I will try the last. Before my body,
Yet hee's good that did the like for Fleans:
Yet it shall be Tempest-tost.
Yet when we can entreat an houre to serue,
Yong fry of Treachery?
You do not giue the Cheere, the Feast is sold
You doe vnbend your Noble strength, to thinke
You greet with present Grace, and great prediction
You haue knowne what you should not
You looke but on a stoole
You may discerne of him through me, and wisedome
You owe this strange Intelligence, or why
You shall offend him, and extend his Passion,
You wait on Natures Mischiefe. Come thick Night,
Your Charmes, and euery thing beside;
Your Face, my Thane, is as a Booke, where men
Your Hand, your Tongue: looke like th' innocent flower,
Your Highnesse part, is to receiue our Duties:
Your Matrons, and your Maides, could not fill vp
Your Noble Friends do lacke you
Your Vessels, and your Spels prouide,
Your fauors, nor your hate
Your leauy Skreenes throw downe,
Yours for euer?
[The Tragedie of Macbeth by William Shakespeare 1603]
a Souldier, and affear'd? what need we feare? who knowes
actuall performances, what (at any time) haue you heard
and
and
and hang vp them
and it takes him off; it perswades him, and dis-heartens
and that Ile spend for him
are Lyars and Swearers enow, to beate the honest men,
attendants,
before, these weyward Sisters saluted me, and referr'd me to
blood in him
by being ignorant of what Greatnesse is promis'd thee. Lay
done, cannot be vndone. To bed, to bed, to bed.
dyed holily in their beds
enough for Gods sake, yet could not equiuocate to Heauen:
equiuocates him in a sleepe, and giuing him the Lye,
for him, though he tooke vp my Legges sometime, yet I
for the dignity of the whole body
from her, to satisfie my remembrance the more strongly
further, they made themselues Ayre, into which they vanish'd.
goe the Primrose way to th' euerlasting Bonfire.
haue I thought good to deliuer thee (my dearest Partner of
haue a new Father
he cannot come out on's graue
her say?
her, vnlocke her Closset, take foorth paper, folde it,
him; makes him stand too, and not stand too: in conclusion,
himselfe on th' expectation of Plentie: Come in time, haue
i'th' name of Belzebub? Here's a Farmer, that hang'd
it makes him, and it marres him; it sets him on,
it to thy heart and farewell.
it, when none can call our powre to accompt: yet who
knowne those which haue walkt in their sleep, who haue
learn'd by the perfect'st report, they haue more in them, then
leaues him
looke not so pale: I tell you yet againe Banquo's buried;
made a Shift to cast him.
meeting a bleeding Captaine.
mortall knowledge. When I burnt in desire to question them
much Drinke may be said to be an Equiuocator with Lecherie:
my Lord, no more o'that: you marre all with this starting
my life fast asleepe: obserue her, stand close
of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand.
of that: Heauen knowes what she ha's knowne
oh come in, Equiuocator.
once the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of watching.
perceiue no truth in your report. When was it shee last
place is too cold for Hell. Ile Deuill-Porter it no further:
prouoke?
requited him for his Lye, and (I thinke) being too strong
seene her rise from her bed, throw her Night-Gown vppon
seruice.
stickes deeper: growes with more pernicious roote
that euer yet they heard
the King, who all-hail'd me Thane of Cawdor, by which Title
the Scales against eyther Scale, who committed Treason
the comming on of time, with haile King that shalt be. This
the desire, but it takes away the performance. Therefore
their Army,
then 'tis time to doo't: Hell is murky. Fye, my Lord, fie,
this a quarter of an houre
thus washing her hands: I haue knowne her continue in
to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleepe
to confirme my speech.
walk'd?
with Boughes.
would haue thought the olde man to haue had so much
would not, it were a good signe, that I should quickely
write vpon't, read it, afterwards Seale it, and againe returne
