

























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































Actus Primus. Scoena Prima.
   All. Padock calls anon: faire is foule, and foule is faire,
Alarum within. Enter King Malcome, Donalbaine, Lenox, with
As seemeth by his plight, of the Reuolt
As thou didst leaue it
As two spent Swimmers, that doe cling together,
And choake their Art: The mercilesse Macdonwald
And Fortune on his damned Quarry smiling,
And fix'd his Head vpon our Battlements
As Cannons ouer-charg'd with double Cracks,
And fanne our people cold.
Assisted by that most disloyall Traytor,
And with his former Title greet Macbeth
  1. A Saylors Wife had Chestnuts in her Lappe,
And mouncht, & mouncht, and mouncht:
Aroynt thee, Witch, the rumpe-fed Ronyon cryes.
And like a Rat without a tayle,
   3. And I another
And the very Ports they blow,
All the Quarters that they know,
  3. A Drumme, a Drumme:
   All. The weyward Sisters, hand in hand,
And thrice againe, to make vp nine.
And yet are on't? Liue you, or are you aught
And yet your Beards forbid me to interprete
  1. All haile Macbeth, haile to thee Thane of Glamis
   2. All haile Macbeth, haile to thee Thane of Cawdor
   3. All haile Macbeth, that shalt be King hereafter
Are ye fantasticall, or that indeed
And say, which Graine will grow, and which will not,
A prosperous Gentleman: And to be King,
And these are of them: whither are they vanish'd?
And powr'd them downe before him
   Ang. Wee are sent,
  Ang. Who was the Thane, liues yet,
And vantage; or that with both he labour'd
And oftentimes, to winne vs to our harme,
As happy Prologues to the swelling Act
And make my seated Heart knock at my Ribbes,
Against the vse of Nature? Present Feares
Are lesse then horrible Imaginings:
And nothing is, but what is not
Attendants.
And set forth a deepe Repentance:
As one that had beene studied in his death,
As 'twere a carelesse Trifle
An absolute Trust.
And our Duties are to your Throne, and State,
And Honor
And hold thee to my Heart
And you whose places are the nearest, know,
And binde vs further to you
And in his commendations, I am fed:
Art not without Ambition, but without
And yet would'st wrongly winne.
And that which rather thou do'st feare to doe,
And chastise with the valour of my Tongue
All that impeides thee from the Golden Round,
And fill me from the Crowne to the Toe, top-full
And take my Milke for Gall, you murth'ring Ministers,
And pall thee in the dunnest smoake of Hell,
And thanke vs for your trouble
Against those Honors deepe, and broad,
And his great Loue (sharpe as his Spurre) hath holp him
And shall continue, our Graces towards him.
And Pitty, like a naked New-borne-Babe,
And falles on th' other.
And wakes it now to looke so greene, and pale,
At what it did so freely? From this time,
As thou art in desire? Would'st thou haue that
And liue a Coward in thine owne Esteeme?
And to be more then what you were, you would
And dasht the Braines out, had I so sworne
As you haue done to this
And wee'le not fayle: when Duncan is asleepe,
A Lymbeck onely: when in Swinish sleepe,
As we shall make our Griefes and Clamor rore,
Away, and mock the time with fairest show,
Actus Secundus. Scena Prima.
A heauie Summons lyes like Lead vpon me,
And yet I would not sleepe:
And sent forth great Largesse to your Offices.
And shut vp in measurelesse content
Art thou not fatall Vision, sensible
A Dagger of the Minde, a false Creation,
As this which now I draw.
And such an Instrument I was to vse.
And on thy Blade, and Dudgeon, Gouts of Blood,
Alarum'd by his Centinell, the Wolfe,
And take the present horror from the time,
A Bell rings.
And the surfeted Groomes doe mock their charge
And 'tis not done: th' attempt, and not the deed,
And one cry'd Murther, that they did wake each other:
And addrest them againe to sleepe
As they had seene me with these Hangmans hands:
After these wayes: so, it will make vs mad
And wash this filthie Witnesse from your Hand.
Are but as Pictures: 'tis the Eye of Childhood,
A little Water cleares vs of this deed.
And shew vs to be Watchers: be not lost
Anon, anon, I pray you remember the Porter.
And Drinke, Sir, is a great prouoker of three things
And (as they say) lamentings heard i'th' Ayre;
And Prophecying, with Accents terrible,
And did shake
A fellow to it.
And looke on Death it selfe: vp, vp, and see
As from your Graues rise vp, and walke like Sprights,
And say, it is not so.
All is but Toyes: Renowne and Grace is dead,
And his gash'd Stabs, look'd like a Breach in Nature,
And when we haue our naked Frailties hid,
And question this most bloody piece of worke,
Against the vndivulg'd pretence, I fight
   All. So all
And meet i'th' Hall together
   All. Well contented.
And let vs not be daintie of leaue-taking,
And yet darke Night strangles the trauailing Lampe:
A Faulcon towring in her pride of place,
(A thing most strange, and certaine)
Are stolne away and fled, which puts vpon them
And Guardian of their Bones
Actus Tertius. Scena Prima.
As the weyard Women promis'd, and I feare
As vpon thee Macbeth, their Speeches shine,
And set me vp in hope. But hush, no more.
Attendants.
And all-thing vnbecomming
And Ile request your presence
Are with a most indissoluble tye
Adieu, till you returne at Night.
And so I doe commend you to their backs.
And in his Royaltie of Nature reignes that
And to that dauntlesse temper of his Minde,
And bad them speake to him. Then Prophet-like,
And put a barren Scepter in my Gripe,
And champion me to th' vtterance.
And all things else, that might
And went further, which is now
Are you so Gospell'd, to pray for this good man,
And for his Issue, whose heauie hand
As Hounds, and Greyhounds, Mungrels, Spaniels, Curres,
All by the Name of Dogges: the valued file
According to the gift, which bounteous Nature
And I will put that Businesse in your Bosomes,
Against my neer'st of Life: and though I could
And bid my will auouch it; yet I must not,
Acquaint you with the perfect Spy o'th' time,
And something from the Pallace: alwayes thought,
After Lifes fitfull Feuer, he sleepes well,
And make our Faces Vizards to our Hearts,
And with thy bloodie and inuisible Hand
And the Crow makes Wing toth' Rookie Wood:
Alreadie are i'th' Court
   3. Almost a mile: but he does vsually,
  2. A Light, a Light
Attendants.
At first and last, the hearty welcome
And play the humble Host:
As broad, and generall, as the casing Ayre:
And health on both
And hath beene from his youth. Pray you keepe Seat,
A womans story, at a Winters fire
Authoriz'd by her Grandam: shame it selfe,
And there an end: But now they rise againe
And push vs from our stooles. This is more strange
And to our deere Friend Banquo, whom we misse:
And all to all
Approach thou like the rugged Russian Beare,
And dare me to the Desart with thy Sword:
And ouercome vs like a Summers Clowd,
And keepe the naturall Rubie of your Cheekes,
Attend his Maiesty
Augures, and vnderstood Relations, haue
At our great bidding
(And betimes I will) to the weyard Sisters.
All causes shall giue way. I am in blood
And I the Mistris of your Charmes,
And which is worse, all you haue done
And at the pit of Acheron
And that distill'd by Magicke slights,
As by the strength of their illusion,
And you all know, Security
And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late,
(As, and't please Heauen he shall not) they should finde
All which we pine for now. And this report
And hums; as who should say, you'l rue the time
Aduise him to a Caution, t' hold what distance
Actus Quartus. Scena Prima.
   All. Double, double, toile and trouble;
Adders Forke, and Blinde-wormes Sting,
   All. Double, double, toyle and trouble,
Adde thereto a Tigers Chawdron,
   All. Double, double, toyle and trouble,
And euery one shall share i'th' gaines:
And now about the Cauldron sing
  All. A deed without a name
Against the Churches: Though the yesty Waues
   All. Come high or low:
   1 Appar. Macbeth, Macbeth, Macbeth:
  2 Appar. Macbeth, Macbeth, Macbeth
   Appar. Be bloody, bold, & resolute:
And take a Bond of Fate: thou shalt not liue,
And sleepe in spight of Thunder.
And weares vpon his Baby-brow, the round
And top of Soueraignty?
  All. Listen, but speake not too't
   3 Appar. Be Lyon metled, proud, and take no care:
  All. Seeke to know no more
And an eternall Curse fall on you: Let me know.
   All. Shew his Eyes, and greeue his Hart,
A shew of eight Kings, and Banquo last, with a glasse in his hand.
A third, is like the former. Filthy Hagges,
Another yet? A seauenth? Ile see no more:
And yet the eighth appeares, who beares a glasse,
And points at them for his. What? is this so?
And shew the best of our delights.
And damn'd all those that trust them. I did heare
All is the Feare, and nothing is the Loue;
As little is the Wisedome, where the flight
And do not know our selues: when we hold Rumor
And yet hee's Father-lesse
And what will you do now? How will you liue?
And yet I'faith with wit enough for thee
And must be hang'd
Accounted dangerous folly. Why then (alas)
As if it felt with Scotland, and yell'd out
As I shall finde the time to friend: I wil.
A good and vertuous Nature may recoyle
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
And the rich East to boot
And heere from gracious England haue I offer
All the particulars of Vice so grafted,
All continent Impediments would ore-beare
And fall of many Kings. But feare not yet
And yet seeme cold. The time you may so hoodwinke:
As will to Greatnesse dedicate themselues,
A stanchlesse Auarice, that were I King,
And my more-hauing, would be as a Sawce
As Iustice, Verity, Temp'rance, Stablenesse,
Acting it many wayes. Nay, had I powre, I should
All vnity on earth
And do's blaspheme his breed? Thy Royall Father
At no time broke my Faith, would not betray
Already at a point, was setting foorth:
A most myraculous worke in this good King,
All swolne and Vlcerous, pittifull to the eye,
And sundry Blessings hang about his Throne,
Almost affraid to know it selfe. It cannot
Are made, not mark'd: Where violent sorrow seemes
A Moderne extasie: The Deadmans knell,
An older, and a better Souldier, none
At one fell swoope?
And would not take their part? Sinfull Macduff,
And Braggart with my tongue. But gentle Heauens,
Actus Quintus. Scena Prima.
And still keepe eyes vpon her: So goodnight,
   Ang. Neere Byrnan wood
And many vnruffe youths, that euen now
   Ang. Now do's he feele
And with him poure we in our Countries purge,
All mortall Consequences, haue pronounc'd me thus:
And mingle with the English Epicures,
Are Counsailers to feare. What Soldiers Whay-face?
And that which should accompany Old-Age,
As Honor, Loue, Obedience, Troopes of Friends,
As she is troubled with thicke-comming Fancies
And with some sweet Obliuious Antidote
And purge it to a sound and pristine Health,
And bear't before him, thereby shall we shadow
And none serue with him, but constrained things,
Attend the true euent, and put we on
And beate them backward home. What is that noyse?
A Cry within of Women.
As life were in't. I haue supt full with horrors,
And all our yesterdayes, haue lighted Fooles
And then is heard no more. It is a Tale
And wish th' estate o'th' world were now vndon.
At least wee'l dye with Harnesse on our backe.
And shew like those you are: You (worthy Vnkle)
According to our order
Alarums continued.
Am I to feare, or none.
Alarums. Enter Macduffe.
Are hyr'd to beare their Staues; either thou Macbeth,
And more I begge not.
And little is to do
As easie may'st thou the intrenchant Ayre
And let the Angell whom thou still hast seru'd
And be these Iugling Fiends no more beleeu'd,
And breake it to our hope. Ile not fight with thee
And liue to be the shew, and gaze o'th' time.
And to be baited with the Rabbles curse.
And thou oppos'd, being of no woman borne,
And damn'd be him, that first cries hold, enough.
And so his Knell is knoll'd
And so God be with him. Here comes newer comfort.
   All. Haile King of Scotland.
And make vs euen with you. My Thanes and Kinsmen
As calling home our exil'd Friends abroad,
But the Norweyan Lord, surueying vantage,
Began a fresh assault
Banquoh?
But in a Syue Ile thither sayle,
   Banquo. How farre is't call'd to Soris? What are these,
By each at once her choppie finger laying
   Banq. Good Sir, why doe you start, and seeme to feare
   1. Banquo, and Macbeth, all haile
By Sinells death, I know I am Thane of Glamis,
But how, of Cawdor? the Thane of Cawdor liues
  Banq. The Earth hath bubbles, as the Water ha's,
   Banq. Were such things here, as we doe speake about?
   Banq. You shall be King
  Banq. Toth' selfe-same tune and words: who's here?
   Banq. What, can the Deuill speake true?
But vnder heauie Iudgement beares that Life,
But Treasons Capitall, confess'd, and prou'd,
   Banq. That trusted home,
Besides the Thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange:
   Banq. Looke how our Partner's rapt
   Banq. New Honors come vpon him
But with the aid of vse
   Banq. Worthy Macbeth, wee stay vpon your leysure
   Banq. Very gladly
But I haue spoke with one that saw him die:
By doing euery thing safe toward your Loue
   Banq. There if I grow,
But signes of Noblenesse, like Starres, shall shine
But be the Serpent vnder't. He that's comming,
Banquo, Lenox,
   Banq. This Guest of Summer,
By his loued Mansonry, that the Heauens breath
Buttrice, nor Coigne of Vantage, but this Bird
By your leaue Hostesse.
But heere, vpon this Banke and Schoole of time,
Bloody Instructions, which being taught, returne
Be so much more the man. Nor time, nor place
But screw your courage to the sticking place,
  Banq. How goes the Night, Boy?
   Banq. And she goes downe at Twelue
   Banq. Hold, take my Sword:
   Banq. What Sir, not yet at rest? the King's a bed.
By the name of most kind Hostesse,
   Banq. All's well.
   Banq. At your kind'st leysure
   Banq. So I lose none,
   Banq. Thankes Sir: the like to you.
Balme of hurt Mindes, great Natures second Course,
But yet 'tis one
Banquo, and Donalbaine: Malcolme awake,
Bell rings. Enter Lady.
  Ban. Too cruell, any where.
   Banq. Looke to the Lady:
But shift away: there's warrant in that Theft,
Beauteous, and swift, the Minions of their Race,
  Banq. Thou hast it now, King, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
But that my selfe should be the Roote, and Father
   Banq. Let your Highnesse
  Ban. I, my good Lord
  Ban. As farre, my Lord, as will fill vp the time
   Ban. My Lord, I will not
  Ban. I, my good Lord: our time does call vpon's
But let the frame of things dis-ioynt,
Both the Worlds suffer,
Be bright and Iouiall among your Guests to Night
  1. But who did bid thee ioyne with vs?
   Banquo within. Giue vs a Light there, hoa
   Ban. It will be Rayne to Night
   Ban. O, Trecherie!
Best halfe of our Affaire
Banquet prepar'd. Enter Macbeth, Lady, Rosse, Lenox, Lords, and
Both sides are euen: heere Ile sit i'th' mid'st,
Be large in mirth, anon wee'l drinke a Measure
But now I am cabin'd, crib'd, confin'd, bound in
Behold, looke, loe, how say you:
But as a thing of Custome: 'Tis no other,
Broke the good meeting, with most admir'd disorder
But go at once
Blood will haue Blood:
By Maggot Pyes, & Choughes, & Rookes brought forth
By the worst meanes, the worst, for mine owne good,
But make amends now: Get you gon,
Backe againe.
But peace; for from broad words, and cause he fayl'd
Boyle thou first i'th' charmed pot
  2 By the pricking of my Thumbes,
Beware Macduffe,
Beware the Thane of Fife: dismisse me. Enough.
But yet Ile make assurance: double sure,
But no more sights. Where are these Gentlemen?
But cruell are the times, when we are Traitors
But floate vpon a wilde and violent Sea
Blessing vpon you
But how wilt thou do for a Father?
Be not found heere: Hence with your little ones
Bestride our downfall Birthdome: each new Morne,
But mine owne Safeties: you may be rightly iust,
By him that shall succeede
Bounty, Perseuerance, Mercy, Lowlinesse,
By his owne Interdiction stands accust,
By many of these traines, hath sought to win me
Be like our warranted Quarrell. Why are you silent?
Be call'd our Mother, but our Graue; where nothing
But who knowes nothing, is once seene to smile:
But in it shares some woe, though the maine part
But I must also feele it as a man;
Bring thou this Fiend of Scotland, and my selfe
Both more and lesse haue giuen him the Reuolt,
But certaine issue, stroakes must arbitrate,
But know not how to doo't
But Beare-like I must fight the course. What's he
But Swords I smile at, Weapons laugh to scorne,
Brandish'd by man that's of a Woman borne.
By this great clatter, one of greatest note
But get thee backe, my soule is too much charg'd
But like a man he dy'de
Behold where stands
Before we reckon with your seuerall loues,
   Cap. Doubtfull it stood,
   Cap. As whence the Sunne 'gins his reflection,
Compell'd these skipping Kernes to trust their heeles,
  Cap. Yes, as Sparrowes, Eagles;
Confronted him with selfe-comparisons,
Curbing his lauish spirit: and to conclude,
Craues composition:
Can post with post, and euery one did beare
Cousins, a word, I pray you
Cannot be ill; cannot be good.
Commencing in a Truth? I am Thane of Cawdor.
Come friends.
Confess'd his Treasons, implor'd your Highnesse Pardon,
Children, and Seruants; which doe but what they should,
Conduct me to mine Host we loue him highly,
Could trammell vp the Consequence, and catch
Commends th' Ingredience of our poyson'd Challice
Clock
Confounds vs: hearke: I lay'd their Daggers ready,
Chiefe nourisher in Life's Feast
Cleane from my Hand? no: this my Hand will rather
Come in Taylor, here you may rost your Goose.
Courage, to make's loue knowne?
Contending 'gainst Obedience, as they would
Command vpon me, to the which my duties
Crauing vs ioyntly. Hye you to Horse:
Can touch him further
Cancell and teare to pieces that great Bond,
  1 Come, let's make hast, shee'l soone be
   2 Coole it with a Baboones blood,
Confound and swallow Nauigation vp:
Can tell so much: Shall Banquo's issue euer
Come like shadowes, so depart.
Come Sisters, cheere we vp his sprights,
Come in, without there.
Come bring me where they are.
Conuey your pleasures in a spacious plenty,
Childe of integrity, hath from my soule
Conuert to anger: blunt not the heart, enrage it
Cut short all intermission: Front to Front,
Come go we to the King, our Power is ready,
Come, come, come, come, giue me your hand: What's
   Cath. Who knowes if Donalbane be with his brother?
   Cath. Great Dunsinane he strongly Fortifies:
   Cath. Well, march we on,
Curses, not lowd but deepe, Mouth-honor, breath
Can'st thou not Minister to a minde diseas'd,
Cleanse the stufft bosome, of that perillous stuffe
Come, put mine Armour on: giue me my Staffe:
Come sir, dispatch. If thou could'st Doctor, cast
Cannot once start me. Wherefore was that cry?
Creepes in this petty pace from day to day,
Comes toward Dunsinane. Arme, Arme, and out,
Doe swarme vpon him) from the Westerne Isles
Disdayning Fortune, with his brandisht Steele,
Discomfort swells: Marke King of Scotland, marke,
Drum within.
Doe you not hope your Children shall be Kings,
Duncan comes here to Night
Did then adhere, and yet you would make both:
Do's vnmake you. I haue giuen Sucke, and know
Didst thou not heare a noyse?
Did not you speake?
Deare Duff, I prythee contradict thy selfe,
  Donal. What is amisse?
  Donal. What should be spoken here,
   Don. To Ireland, I:
Doe you finde your patience so predominant,
Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
Duncane is in his Graue:
Disguising what they are
Do not muse at me my most worthy Friends,
Do faithfull Homage, and receiue free Honors,
Dayes and Nights, ha's thirty one:
Ditch-deliuer'd by a Drab,
   2 Demand
Descends.
Descend.
Do I put vp that womanly defence,
Desire his Iewels, and this others House,
Destroying them for wealth
Deuotion, Patience, Courage, Fortitude,
Dy'de euery day she liu'd. Fare thee well,
Deale betweene thee and me; For euen now
  Doct. I Sir: there are a crew of wretched Soules
Dying, or ere they sicken
Due to some single brest?
Did you say All? Oh Hell-Kite! All?
  Doct. I haue too Nights watch'd with you, but can
   Doct. A great perturbation in Nature, to receyue at
   Doct. You may to me, and 'tis most meet you should
   Doct. How came she by that light?
   Doct. You see her eyes are open
   Doct. What is it she do's now?
   Doct. Heark, she speaks, I will set downe what comes
   Doct. Do you marke that?
   Doct. Go too, go too:
   Doct. What a sigh is there? The hart is sorely charg'd
   Doct. Well, well, well
   Doct. This disease is beyond my practise: yet I haue
   Doct. Euen so?
  Doct. Will she go now to bed?
   Doct. Foule whisp'rings are abroad: vnnaturall deeds
Do breed vnnaturall troubles: infected mindes
Drum and Colours. Enter Menteth, Cathnes, Angus, Lenox,
Do call it valiant Fury, but for certaine
Death of thy Soule, those Linnen cheekes of thine
  Doct. Not so sicke my Lord,
  Doct. Therein the Patient
  Doct. I my good Lord: your Royall Preparation
   Doct. Were I from Dunsinane away, and cleere,
Drum and Colours. Enter Malcolme, Seyward, Macduffe,
Direnesse familiar to my slaughterous thoughts
Do come to Dunsinane, and now a Wood
Drumme and Colours. Enter Malcolme, Seyward, Macduffe, and
Do we but finde the Tyrants power to night,
Do better vpon them.
Exeunt.
Except they meant to bathe in reeking Wounds,
Enter Rosse and Angus.
Exeunt.
Enter Macbeth and Banquo.
Enter Rosse and Angus.
Exeunt.
Enter Macbeth, Banquo, Rosse, and Angus.
Enter.
Enter Macbeths Wife alone with a Letter.
Enter Messenger.
Exit Messenger.
Enter Macbeth.
Exeunt.
Enter Lady.
Exeunt.
Enter Lady.
Each corporall Agent to this terrible Feat.
Exeunt.
Enter Banquo, and Fleance, with a Torch before him.
Enter Macbeth, and a Seruant with a Torch.
Exit Banquo.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter Lady.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter.
Enter Lady.
Exeunt.
Enter a Porter. Knocking within.
Enter Macduff, and Lenox.
Enter Macbeth.
Exit Macduffe.
Enter Macduff.
Exeunt. Macbeth and Lenox.
Enter Banquo.
Enter Macbeth, Lenox, and Rosse.
Enter Malcolme and Donalbaine.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Enter Rosse, with an Old man.
Euen like the deed that's done: On Tuesday last,
Enter Macduffe.
Exeunt. omnes
Enter Banquo.
Exit Banquo.
Exeunt. Lords.
Exit Seruant.
Enter Seruant, and two Murtherers.
Exit Seruant.
Exeunt.
Enter Macbeths Lady, and a Seruant.
Enter.
Enter Macbeth.
Ere we will eate our Meale in feare, and sleepe
Exeunt.
Enter three Murtherers.
Enter Banquo and Fleans, with a Torch.
Exeunt.
Enter first Murtherer.
Exit Murderer.
Enter the Ghost of Banquo, and sits in Macbeths place.
Ere humane Statute purg'd the gentle Weale:
Enter Ghost.
Euen to the disposition that I owe,
Exit Lords.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Enter Lenox, and another Lord.
Exeunt.
Eye of Newt, and Toe of Frogge,
Enter Hecat, and the other three Witches.
Enter Macbeth.
Euen till destruction sicken: Answer me
Enter Lenox.
Exeunt.
Enter Macduffes Wife, her Son, and Rosse.
Each way, and moue. I take my leaue of you:
Exit Rosse.
Enter a Messenger.
Exit Messenger
Enter Murtherers.
Exit crying Murther.
Enter Malcolme and Macduffe.
Esteeme him as a Lambe, being compar'd
Enter a Doctor.
Enter.
Enter Rosse.
Expire before the Flowers in their Caps,
Each minute teemes a new one
Exeunt.
Enter a Doctor of Physicke, and a Wayting Gentlewoman.
Enter Lady, with a Taper.
Exit Lady.
Exeunt.
Excite the mortified man
Each drop of vs
Exeunt. marching.
Enter Macbeth, Doctor, and Attendants.
Enter Seruant.
Enter Seyton.
Exeunt.
Erre in report of vs
Exeunt. marching
Enter Macbeth, Seyton, & Souldiers, with Drum and Colours.
Enter a Messenger.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter young Seyward.
Enter.
Exit. Alarums.
Enter Malcolme and Seyward.
Exeunt. Alarum
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macduffe.
Exeunt. fighting. Alarums.
Enter Fighting, and Macbeth slaine.
Enter Macduffe, with Macbeths head.
For braue Macbeth (well hee deserues that Name)
For it is thine
Flourish. Enter King, Lenox, Malcolme, Donalbaine, and
For in my way it lyes. Starres hide your fires,
Flourish. Exeunt.
For those of old, and the late Dignities,
First, as I am his Kinsman, and his Subiect,
For thy vndaunted Mettle should compose
False Face must hide what the false Heart doth know.
  Fleance. The Moone is downe: I haue not heard the
   Fleance. I take't, 'tis later, Sir
For it must seeme their Guilt.
Faith here's an Equiuocator, that could sweare in both
For Ruines wastfull entrance: there the Murtherers,
For euer knit
For a darke houre, or twaine
Farwell.
For Banquo's Issue haue I fil'd my Minde,
For them, the gracious Duncan haue I murther'd,
For certaine friends that are both his, and mine,
For sundry weightie Reasons
  Fleans , his Sonne, that keepes him companie,
For a few words
Flye good Fleans, flye, flye, flye,
For my heart speakes, they are welcome.
Fleans is scap'd
From thence, the sawce to meate is Ceremony,
Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
For Fleans fled: Men must not walke too late.
For 'twould haue anger'd any heart aliue
(From whom this Tyrant holds the due of Birth)
Free from our Feasts, and Banquets bloody kniues;
Flye to the Court of England, and vnfold
Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble
   2 Fillet of a Fenny Snake,
For a Charme of powrefull trouble,
Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble
Finger of Birth-strangled Babe,
For th' Ingredience of our Cawdron
Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble
From the Murderers Gibbet, throw
For the Blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles vpon me,
From whence himselfe do's flye? He loues vs not,
From what we feare, yet know not what we feare,
For goodnesse dare not check thee: wear y thy wrongs,
For the whole Space that's in the Tyrants Graspe,
Finding it so inclinde
From ouer-credulous hast: but God aboue
For strangers to my Nature. I am yet
For that I saw the Tyrants Power a-foot.
Fell slaughter on their soules: Heauen rest them now
Feare not Macbeth, no man that's borne of woman
For where there is aduantage to be giuen,
Fight, and young Seyward slaine.
Fight: Alarum
For it hath Cow'd my better part of man:
Flourish.
Flourish. Exeunt Omnes.
FINIS. THE TRAGEDIE OF MACBETH.
'Gainst my Captiuitie: Haile braue friend;
Giue me, quoth I.
Greatnesse) that thou might'st not loose the dues of reioycing
Glamys thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
Great Glamys, worthy Cawdor,
Greater then both, by the all-haile hereafter,
Giue solely soueraigne sway, and Masterdome
Golden Opinions from all sorts of people,
Giue me my Sword: who's there?
Glamis hath murther'd Sleepe, and therefore Cawdor
Giue me the Daggers: the sleeping, and the dead,
Get on your Night-Gowne, least occasion call vs,
Goes Fleance with you?
Gate
Giuen to the common Enemie of Man,
Grapples you to the heart; and loue of vs,
Gentle my Lord, sleeke o're your rugged Lookes,
Good things of Day begin to droope, and drowse,
Great businesse must be wrought ere Noone.
Giue to our Tables meate, sleepe to our Nights:
Gall of Goate, and Slippes of Yew,
Great Byrnam Wood, to high Dunsmane Hill
Great Tyrrany, lay thou thy basis sure,
Giue sorrow words; the griefe that do's not speake,
  Gent. Since his Maiesty went into the Field, I haue
  Gent. That Sir, which I will not report after her
   Gent. Neither to you, nor any one, hauing no witnesse
  Gent. Why it stood by her: she ha's light by her continually,
   Gent. I, but their sense are shut
   Gent. It is an accustom'd action with her, to seeme
   Gent. She ha's spoke what shee should not, I am sure
   Gent. I would not haue such a heart in my bosome,
   Gent. Pray God it be sir
  Gent. Directly
God, God forgiue vs all. Looke after her,
   Gent. Good night good Doctor.
Giue me my Armor
Houer through the fogge and filthie ayre.
Her Husband's to Aleppo gone, Master o'th' Tiger:
Hang vpon his Pent-house Lid:
He shall liue a man forbid:
   1. Here I haue a Pilots Thumbe,
   1. Hayle
   2. Hayle
   3. Hayle
His Wonders and his Prayses doe contend,
He findes thee in the stout Norweyan Rankes,
He bad me, from him, call thee Thane of Cawdor:
Haue ouerthrowne him
He was a Gentleman, on whom I built
He brings great newes,
Hoboyes, and Torches. Enter King, Malcolme, Donalbaine,
Hath made his pendant Bed, and procreant Cradle,
How you shall bid God-eyld vs for your paines,
Heap'd vp to them, we rest your Ermites
Haue theirs, themselues, and what is theirs in compt,
Hoboyes. Torches. Enter a Sewer, and diuers Seruants with Dishes
Hath borne his Faculties so meeke; hath bin
How now? What Newes?
He hath Honour'd me of late, and I haue bought
How tender 'tis to loue the Babe that milkes me,
Haue pluckt my Nipple from his Bonelesse Gummes,
His spungie Officers? who shall beare the guilt
He hath beene in vnusuall Pleasure,
Heare not my steps, which they may walke, for feare
Heare it not, Duncan, for it is a Knell,
Hearke, peace: it was the Owle that shriek'd,
He is about it, the Doores are open:
He could not misse 'em. Had he not resembled
How is't with me, when euery noyse appalls me?
How easie is it then? your Constancie
Hath left you vnattended.
Hearke, more knocking.
His Siluer skinne, lac'd with His Golden Blood,
Hath not yet lighted: and our safest way,
Houres dreadfull, and things strange: but this sore Night
Hath trifled former knowings
Heere comes the good Macduffe.
How goes the world Sir, now?
He hath a Wisdome, that doth guide his Valour,
How you were borne in hand, how crost:
Hath bow'd you to the Graue, and begger'd
Hath in him clos'd: whereby he does receiue
Hath so incens'd, that I am recklesse what I doe,
How now, my Lord, why doe you keepe alone?
His Cloyster'd flight, ere to black Heccats summons
Hath rung Nights yawning Peale,
   2. He needes not our mistrust, since he deliuers
   3. Hearke, I heare Horses
   1. His Horses goe about
Hath Nature that in time will Venom breed,
He will againe be well. If much you note him
  Hec. Haue I not reason (Beldams) as you are?
Hath bene but for a wayward Sonne,
He shall spurne Fate, scorne Death, and beare
His hopes 'boue Wisedome, Grace, and Feare:
Hearke, I am call'd: my little Spirit see
Haue but hit your Thoughts
How it did greeue Macbeth? Did he not straight
He ha's borne all things well, and I do thinke,
His presence at the Tyrants Feast, I heare
Hath so exasperate their King, that hee
His wisedome can prouide. Some holy Angell
His Message ere he come, that a swift blessing
   3 Harpier cries, 'tis time, 'tis time
  Hec. O well done: I commend your paines,
(How ere you come to know it) answer me:
Her nine Farrow: Greaze that's sweaten
   1 He knowes thy thought:
Heare his speech, but say thou nought
He Descends.
   1 He will not be commanded: heere's another
Hoboyes
Horrible sight: Now I see 'tis true,
His Wife, his Babes, and all vnfortunate Soules
His flight was madnesse: when our Actions do not,
His Mansion, and his Titles, in a place
He wants the naturall touch. For the poore Wren
Her yong ones in her Nest, against the Owle:
He is Noble, Wise, Iudicious, and best knowes
How wilt thou do for a Father?
Hold fast the mortall Sword: and like good men,
He hath not touch'd you yet. I am yong, but something
Hath banish'd me from Scotland. O my Brest,
Himselfe best knowes: but strangely visited people
Hanging a golden stampe about their neckes,
He hath a heauenly guift of Prophesie,
Heauen forgiue him too
His Vnkle Seyward, and the good Macduff.
He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause
His secret Murthers sticking on his hands,
Hang loose about him, like a Giants Robe
His pester'd Senses to recoyle, and start,
Hang those that talke of Feare. Giue me mine Armor:
How do's your Patient, Doctor?
Heere may you see the Tyrant
He onely liu'd but till he was a man,
Had I as many Sonnes, as I haue haires,
Haile King of Scotland
Henceforth be Earles, the first that euer Scotland
In Thunder, Lightning, or in Raine?
   1. I come, Gray-Malkin
If I say sooth, I must report they were
I cannot tell: but I am faint,
Ile doe, Ile doe, and Ile doe
   2. Ile giue thee a Winde
   1. I my selfe haue all the other,
I'th' Ship-mans Card.
Ile dreyne him drie as Hay:
If you can looke into the Seedes of Time,
In viewing o're the rest o'th' selfe-same day,
In which addition, haile most worthy Thane,
In his Countreyes wracke, I know not:
In deepest consequence.
If ill? why hath it giuen me earnest of successe,
If good? why doe I yeeld to that suggestion,
In doing it, payes it selfe.
I haue begun to plant thee, and will labour
In drops of sorrow. Sonnes, Kinsmen, Thanes,
Ile be my selfe the Herbenger, and make ioyfull
It is a Banquet to me. Let's after him,
It is a peerelesse Kinsman.
It is too full o'th' Milke of humane kindnesse,
Is not thy Master with him? who, wer't so,
In euery point twice done, and then done double,
It were done quickly: If th' Assassination
I dare do all that may become a man,
I would, while it was smyling in my Face,
I dreamt last Night of the three weyward Sisters:
If you would graunt the time
In seeking to augment it, but still keepe
I shall be counsail'd
Is this a Dagger, which I see before me,
I haue thee not, and yet I see thee still.
I see thee yet, in forme as palpable,
It is the bloody Businesse, which informes
I goe, and it is done: the Bell inuites me.
I stood, and heard them: But they did say their Prayers,
I had most need of Blessing, and Amen stuck in my throat
I am afraid, to thinke what I haue done:
Ile guild the Faces of the Groomes withall,
I heare a knocking at the South entry:
I would thou could'st.
I had thought to haue let in some of all Professions, that
I haue almost slipt the houre
I had liu'd a blessed time: for from this instant,
Is left this Vault, to brag of.
Is stopt, the very Source of it is stopt
In the great Hand of God I stand, and thence,
Ile to England
Is to auoid the ayme. Therefore to Horse,
Is't Nights predominance, or the Dayes shame,
It should not stand in thy Posterity,
It had bene as a gap in our great Feast,
In this dayes Councell: but wee'le take to morrow.
Is't farre you ride?
I must become a borrower of the Night,
In England, and in Ireland, not confessing
In your nature, that you can let this goe?
I will aduise you where to plant your selues,
Ile come to you anon
It is concluded: Banquo, thy Soules flight,
If it finde Heauen, must finde it out to Night.
In the affliction of these terrible Dreames,
In restlesse extasie.
Is he dispatch'd?
If thou did'st it, thou art the Non-pareill
I had else beene perfect;
(Impostors to true feare) would well become
If Charnell houses, and our Graues must send
I, and since too, Murthers haue bene perform'd
I haue a strange infirmity, which is nothing
I drinke to th' generall ioy o'th' whole Table,
If trembling I inhabit then, protest mee
I am a man againe: pray you sit still
I keepe a Seruant Feed. I will to morrow
Is the initiate feare, that wants hard vse:
In Riddles, and Affaires of death;
I am for th' Ayre: This night Ile spend
Ile catch it ere it come to ground;
Is Mortals cheefest Enemie.
It was for Malcolme, and for Donalbane
In pious rage, the two delinquents teare,
Is gone, to pray the Holy King, vpon his ayd
In the poysond Entrailes throw
In the Cauldron boyle and bake:
Inchanting all that you put in.
Into the Flame
  1 I Sir, all this is so. But why
Ile Charme the Ayre to giue a sound,
I pray you schoole your selfe. But for your Husband,
It would be my disgrace, and your discomfort.
I take my leaue at once.
I doubt some danger do's approach you neerely.
If you will take a homely mans aduice,
I dare abide no longer.
I haue done no harme. But I remember now
I am in this earthly world: where to do harme
Is often laudable, to do good sometime
In an Imperiall charge. But I shall craue your pardon:
I would not be the Villaine that thou think'st,
I speake not as in absolute feare of you:
I thinke our Country sinkes beneath the yoake,
It weepes, it bleeds, and each new day a gash
Is added to her wounds. I thinke withall,
In euils, to top Macbeth
In my Voluptuousnesse: Your Wiues, your Daughters,
In Nature is a Tyranny: It hath beene
In my most ill-composd Affection, such
I should cut off the Nobles for their Lands,
I haue no rellish of them, but abound
In the diuision of each seuerall Crime,
I am as I haue spoken
Into his power: and modest Wisedome pluckes me
I put my selfe to thy Direction, and
Is thine, and my poore Countries to command:
I pray you?
I haue seene him do: How he solicites heauen
Is there scarse ask'd for who, and good mens liues
I cannot but remember such things were
Is ripe for shaking, and the Powres aboue
In this slumbry agitation, besides her walking, and other
I thinke, but dare not speake
It selfe, for being there
I cannot taint with Feare. What's the Boy Malcolme?
I haue liu'd long enough: my way of life
Is falne into the Seare, the yellow Leafe,
I must not looke to haue: but in their steed,
I would applaud thee to the very Eccho,
I will not be affraid of Death and Bane,
Industrious Souldiership
I should report that which I say I saw,
I look'd toward Byrnane, and anon me thought
I say, a mouing Groue
I care not if thou dost for me as much.
I pull in Resolution, and begin
If this which he auouches, do's appeare,
I 'ginne to be a-weary of the Sun,
Ile proue the lye thou speak'st.
If thou beest slaine, and with no stroake of mine,
I cannot strike at wretched Kernes, whose armes
I sheath againe vndeeded. There thou should'st be,
I beare a charmed Life, which must not yeeld
I throw my warlike Shield: Lay on Macduffe,
In the vnshrinking station where he fought,
It hath no end
I would not wish them to a fairer death:
I see thee compast with thy Kingdomes Pearle,
In such an Honor nam'd: What's more to do,
  King. What bloody man is that? he can report,
   King. O valiant Cousin, worthy Gentleman
   King. Dismay'd not this our Captaines, Macbeth and
   King. So well thy words become thee, as thy wounds,
   King. Whence cam'st thou, worthy Thane?
   King. Great happinesse
   King. No more that Thane of Cawdor shall deceiue
   King. What he hath lost, Noble Macbeth hath wonne.
  2. Killing Swine
Kinde Gentlemen, your paines are registred,
  King. Is execution done on Cawdor?
   King. There's no Art,
   King. Welcome hither:
   King. My plenteous Ioyes,
   King. My worthy Cawdor
  King. True worthy Banquo: he is full so valiant,
  King. This Castle hath a pleasant seat,
  King. See, see our honor'd Hostesse:
   King. Where's the Thane of Cawdor?
   King. Giue me your hand:
Knocke within.
Knocke.
Knocke.
Knocke.
Key.
Knock.
Knock, Knock, Knock. Who's there
Knock.
Knock, knock. Who's there in th' other Deuils Name?
Knock.
Knock, Knock, Knock. Who's there? 'Faith here's an English
Knock.
Knock, Knock. Neuer at quiet: What are you? but this
Knock.
Know, that it was he, in the times past,
Keepe it not from me, quickly let me haue it
Keepes still in Dunsinane, and will indure
(Like Valours Minion) caru'd out his passage,
   Lenox. What a haste lookes through his eyes?
Looke what I haue
   1. Lesser than Macbeth, and greater
Like our strange Garments, cleaue not to their mould,
Let vs toward the King: thinke vpon
Like the leauing it. Hee dy'de,
Let not Light see my black and deepe desires:
  Lady. They met me in the day of successe: and I haue
   Lady. Thou'rt mad to say it.
   Lady. Giue him tending,
   Lady. And when goes hence?
   Lady. O neuer,
Looke like the time, beare welcome in your Eye,
  Lady. Onely looke vp cleare:
Leaue all the rest to me.
   Lady. All our seruice,
   La. Your Seruants euer,
  La. He has almost supt: why haue you left the chamber?
  La. Know you not, he ha's?
   La. Was the hope drunke,
Letting I dare not, wait vpon I would,
Like the poore Cat i'th' Addage
   La. What Beast was't then
  Lady. We faile?
  Lady. Who dares receiue it other,
  La. That which hath made the[m] drunk, hath made me bold:
  Lady. Alack, I am afraid they haue awak'd,
  Lady. I heard the Owle schreame, and the Crickets cry.
  Lady. Now
  Lady. I
  Lady. Donalbaine
   Lady. A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight
   Lady. There are two lodg'd together
Listning their feare, I could not say Amen,
   Lady. Consider it not so deepely
   Lady. These deeds must not be thought
   Lady. What doe you meane?
   Lady. Who was it, that thus cry'd? why worthy Thane,
Looke on't againe, I dare not
   Lady. Infirme of purpose:
  Lady. My Hands are of your colour: but I shame
Lecherie, Sir, it prouokes, and vnprouokes: it prouokes
   Lenox. Good morrow, Noble Sir
  Lenox. Goes the King hence to day?
   Lenox. The Night ha's been vnruly:
   Lenox. My young remembrance cannot paralell
  Lenox. Meane you his Maiestie?
  Lady. What's the Businesse?
   Lady. Woe, alas:
  Lenox. Those of his Chamber, as it seem'd, had don't:
Loyall, and Neutrall, in a moment? No man:
  Lady. Helpe me hence, hoa
Let's not consort with them:
Least our old Robes sit easier then our new
   La. If he had beene forgotten,
Let euery man be master of his time,
  Lady. Is Banquo gone from Court?
   Lady. Say to the King, I would attend his leysure,
  Lady. Nought's had, all's spent.
   Lady. Come on:
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo,
   Lady. You must leaue this
   Lady. But in them, Natures Coppie's not eterne
   Lady. What's to be done?
   1. Let it come downe
   Lords. Thankes to your Maiesty
   La. Pronounce it for me Sir, to all our Friends,
  Lady. My Royall Lord,
   Lenox. May't please your Highnesse sit
Layes blame vpon his promise. Pleas't your Highnesse
   Lenox. Heere is a place reseru'd Sir
  Lenox. Heere my good Lord.
  Lords. What, my good Lord?
   Lady. Sit worthy Friends: my Lord is often thus,
   La. O proper stuffe:
Led you to Duncan. O, these flawes and starts
   La. What? quite vnmann'd in folly
   La. Fie for shame
   La. My worthy Lord
   Lords. Our duties, and the pledge
   La. Thinke of this good Peeres
   La. You haue displac'd the mirth,
  La. I pray you speake not: he growes worse & worse
   Len. Good night, and better health
   La. A kinde goodnight to all.
  La. Almost at oddes with morning, which is which
   La. Did you send to him Sir?
   La. You lacke the season of all Natures, sleepe
Loues for his owne ends, not for you.
  Lenox. My former Speeches,
  Lord. The Sonnes of Duncane
Liues in the English Court, and is receyu'd
   Len. Sent he to Macduffe?
  Lord. He did: and with an absolute Sir, not I
   Lenox. And that well might
   Lord. Ile send my Prayers with him.
Lizards legge, and Howlets wing:
Like a Hell-broth, boyle and bubble
Liuer of Blaspheming Iew,
Like Elues and Fairies in a Ring,
Laugh to scorne
Let this pernitious houre,
  Lenox. What's your Graces will
  Lenox. No my Lord
  Lenox. No indeed my Lord
  Len. 'Tis two or three my Lord, that bring you word:
  Len. I, my good Lord
Like Syllable of Dolour
Let not my Iealousies, be your Dishonors,
Luxurious, Auaricious, False, Deceitfull,
Lent vs good Seyward, and ten thousand men,
Let's make vs Med'cines of our great Reuenge,
Lo you, heere she comes: This is her very guise, and vpon
Looke how she rubbes her hands
   Lad. Yet heere's a spot
   La. Out damned spot: out I say. One: Two: Why
  Lad. The Thane of Fife, had a wife: where is she now?
   La. Heere's the smell of the blood still: all the perfumes
   Lad. Wash your hands, put on your Night-Gowne,
  Lady. To bed, to bed: there's knocking at the gate:
  Len. For certaine Sir, he is not: I haue a File
   Lenox. Or so much as it needes,
Life's but a walking Shadow, a poore Player,
Leade our first Battell. Worthy Macduffe, and wee
Let vs be beaten, if we cannot fight
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable Crests,
   Mal. This is the Serieant,
My Gashes cry for helpe
  Mal. The worthy Thane of Rosse
Macbeth doth come
  Macb. So foule and faire a day I haue not seene
   Mac. Speake if you can: what are you?
   Macb. Stay you imperfect Speakers, tell me more:
  Macb. Into the Ayre: and what seem'd corporall,
Melted, as breath into the Winde.
  Macb. Your Children shall be Kings
   Macb. And Thane of Cawdor too: went it not so?
  Macb. The Thane of Cawdor liues:
   Macb. Glamys, and Thane of Cawdor:
Might yet enkindle you vnto the Crowne,
   Macb. Two Truths are told,
My Thought, whose Murther yet is but fantasticall,
   Macb. If Chance will haue me King,
   Macb. Come what come may,
   Macb. Giue me your fauour:
My dull Braine was wrought with things forgotten.
   Macb. Till then enough:
  Mal. My Liege, they are not yet come back.
Might haue beene mine: onely I haue left to say,
More is thy due, then more then all can pay
   Macb. The seruice, and the loyaltie I owe,
   Macb. The Rest is Labor, which is not vs'd for you:
   Macb. The Prince of Cumberland: that is a step,
  Mess. The King comes here to Night
   Mess. So please you, it is true: our Thane is comming:
   Macb. My dearest Loue,
  Macb. To morrow, as he purposes
May reade strange matters, to beguile the time.
Must be prouided for: and you shall put
   Macb. We will speake further,
Macduff, Rosse, Angus, and Attendants.
   Macb. If it were done, when 'tis done, then 'twer well,
Might be the be all, and the end all. Heere,
  Mac. Hath he ask'd for me?
  Mac. We will proceed no further in this Businesse:
   Macb. Prythee peace:
   Macb. If we should faile?
   Macb. Bring forth Men-Children onely:
  Macb. I am settled, and bend vp
Mercifull Powers, restraine in me the cursed thoughts
  Macb. A Friend
   Mac. Being vnprepar'd,
   Macb. I thinke not of them:
   Macb. If you shall cleaue to my consent,
My Bosome franchis'd, and Allegeance cleare,
   Macb. Good repose the while
  Macb. Goe bid thy Mistresse, when my drinke is ready,
Mine Eyes are made the fooles o'th' other Sences,
Moues like a Ghost. Thou sowre and firme-set Earth
  Macb. Who's there? what hoa?
My Father as he slept, I had don't.
My Husband?
  Macb. I haue done the deed:
  Macb. When?
   Macb. As I descended?
   Macb. Hearke, who lyes i'th' second Chamber?
   Mac. This is a sorry sight
   Macb. There's one did laugh in's sleepe,
   Macb. One cry'd God blesse vs, and Amen the other,
   Mac. But wherefore could not I pronounce Amen?
   Macb. Me thought I heard a voyce cry, Sleep no more:
Macbeth does murther Sleepe, the innocent Sleepe,
  Macb. Still it cry'd, Sleepe no more to all the House:
   Macb. Ile goe no more:
  Macb. Whence is that knocking?
Making the Greene one, Red.
   Macb. To know my deed,
  Macd. Was it so late, friend, ere you went to Bed,
   Macd. What three things does Drinke especially
   Macd. I beleeue, Drinke gaue thee the Lye last Night
  Macd. Is thy Master stirring?
   Macb. Good morrow both
   Macd. Is the King stirring, worthy Thane?
  Macb. Not yet
   Macd. He did command me to call timely on him,
   Macb. Ile bring you to him
   Macd. I know this is a ioyfull trouble to you:
   Macb. The labour we delight in, Physicks paine:
   Macd. Ile make so bold to call, for 'tis my limitted
  Macb. He does: he did appoint so
   Macb. 'Twas a rough Night
  Macd. O horror, horror, horror,
   Macb. and Lenox. What's the matter?
  Macd. Confusion now hath made his Master-peece:
Most sacrilegious Murther hath broke ope
   Macb. What is't you say, the Life?
  Macd. Approch the Chamber, and destroy your sight
   Macd. O gentle Lady,
  Macb. Had I but dy'd an houre before this chance,
  Macb. You are, and doe not know't:
   Macd. Your Royall Father's murther'd
   Mal. Oh, by whom?
   Macb. O, yet I doe repent me of my furie,
   Macd. Wherefore did you so?
  Macb. Who can be wise, amaz'd, temp'rate, & furious,
   Macd. Looke to the Lady
   Mal. Why doe we hold our tongues,
May rush, and seize vs? Let's away,
   Mal. Nor our strong Sorrow
   Macd. And so doe I
   Macb. Let's briefely put on manly readinesse,
  Malc. What will you doe?
   Malc. This murtherous Shaft that's shot,
Make Warre with Mankinde
  Macd. Why see you not?
  Macd. Those that Macbeth hath slaine
  Macd. They were subborned,
Malcolme, and Donalbaine the Kings two Sonnes
   Macd. He is already nam'd, and gone to Scone
  Macd. Carried to Colmekill,
  Macd. No Cosin, Ile to Fife
   Macd. Well may you see things wel done there: Adieu
May they not be my Oracles as well,
  Macb. Heere's our chiefe Guest
   Macb. To night we hold a solemne Supper sir,
   Macb. Ride you this afternoone?
   Macb. We should haue else desir'd your good aduice
   Macb. Faile not our Feast
   Macb. We heare our bloody Cozens are bestow'd
   Macb. I wish your Horses swift, and sure of foot:
   Macb. Bring them before vs.
My Genius is rebuk'd, as it is said
Mark Anthonies was by Caesar. He chid the Sisters,
  Murth. It was, so please your Highnesse
   Macb. Well then,
   1.Murth. You made it knowne to vs
   Macb. I did so:
  1.Murth. We are men, my Liege
   Macb. I, in the Catalogue ye goe for men,
   2.Murth. I am one, my Liege,
   1.Murth. And I another,
   Macb. Both of you know Banquo was your Enemie
   Murth. True, my Lord
   Macb. So is he mine: and in such bloody distance,
Masking the Businesse from the common Eye,
   2.Murth. We shall, my Lord,
   1.Murth. Though our Liues-
  Macb. Your Spirits shine through you.
   Murth. We are resolu'd, my Lord
   Macb. Ile call vpon you straight: abide within,
   Macb. We haue scorch'd the Snake, not kill'd it:
Mallice domestique, forraine Leuie, nothing,
   Macb. So shall I Loue, and so I pray be you:
   Macb. O, full of Scorpions is my Minde, deare Wife:
   Macb. There's comfort yet, they are assaileable,
  Macb. Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest Chuck,
  3. Macbeth
Make it their Walke.
  Macb. You know your owne degrees, sit downe:
   Macb. Our selfe will mingle with Society,
  Macb. See they encounter thee with their harts thanks
   Mur. 'Tis Banquo's then
   Macb. 'Tis better thee without, then he within.
  Mur. My Lord his throat is cut, that I did for him
   Mac. Thou art the best o'th' Cut-throats,
   Mur. Most Royall Sir
   Macb. Then comes my Fit againe:
  Mur. I, my good Lord: safe in a ditch he bides,
   Macb. Thankes for that:
Meeting were bare without it.
  Macb. Sweet Remembrancer:
   Macb. Here had we now our Countries Honor, roof'd,
  Macb. The Table's full
   Macb. Where?
  Macb. Which of you haue done this?
  Macb. Thou canst not say I did it: neuer shake
  Macb. I, and a bold one, that dare looke on that
   Macb. Prythee see there:
   Macb. If I stand heere, I saw him
   Macb. Blood hath bene shed ere now, i'th' olden time
   Macb. I do forget:
   Mac. Auant, & quit my sight, let the earth hide thee:
   Macb. What man dare, I dare:
   Macb. Can such things be,
  Macb. It will haue blood they say:
   Macb. How say'st thou that Macduff denies his person
  Macb. I heare it by the way: But I will send:
More shall they speake: for now I am bent to know
   Macb. Come, wee'l to sleepe: My strange & self-abuse
Meete me i'th' Morning: thither he
Musicke, and a Song.
Macduffe liues in disgrace. Sir, can you tell
May soone returne to this our suffering Country,
Make the Grewell thicke, and slab.
Musicke and a Song. Blacke Spirits, &c.
  Macb. How now you secret, black, & midnight Hags?
   Macb. I coniure you, by that which you Professe,
   Macb. Call 'em: let me see 'em
  Macb. Tell me, thou vnknowne power
  Macb. What ere thou art, for thy good caution, thanks
More potent then the first.
   Macb. Had I three eares, Il'd heare thee
  Mac. Then liue Macduffe: what need I feare of thee?
Macbeth shall neuer vanquish'd be, vntill
  Macb. That will neuer bee:
   Macb. I will be satisfied. Deny me this,
  Macb. Thou art too like the Spirit of Banquo: Down:
Musicke. The Witches Dance, and vanish.
  Macb. Where are they? Gone?
   Macb. Saw you the Weyard Sisters?
   Macb. Came they not by you?
   Macb. Infected be the Ayre whereon they ride,
Macduff is fled to England
   Macb. Fled to England?
   Macb. Time, thou anticipat'st my dread exploits:
My Father is not dead for all your saying
  Mes. Blesse you faire Dame: I am not to you known,
  Mur. Where is your Husband?
   Mur. He's a Traitor
   Mur. What you Egge?
  Mal. Let vs seeke out some desolate shade, & there
   Macd. Let vs rather
   Mal. What I beleeue, Ile waile;
   Macd. I am not treacherous
   Malc. But Macbeth is.
   Macd. I haue lost my Hopes
   Malc. Perchance euen there
   Macd. Bleed, bleed poore Country,
   Mal. Be not offended:
More suffer, and more sundry wayes then euer,
   Macd. What should he be?
  Mal. It is my selfe I meane: in whom I know
   Macd. Not in the Legions
   Mal. I grant him Bloody,
   Macd. Boundlesse intemperance
   Mal. With this, there growes
   Macd. This Auarice
   Mal. But I haue none. The King-becoming Graces,
   Macd. O Scotland, Scotland
   Mal. If such a one be fit to gouerne, speake:
   Mac. Fit to gouern? No not to liue. O Natio[n] miserable!
   Mal. Macduff, this Noble passion
  Macd. Such welcome, and vnwelcom things at once
  Mal. Well, more anon. Comes the King forth
  Mal. I thanke you Doctor
   Macd. What's the Disease he meanes?
  Mal. Tis call'd the Euill.
  Macd. See who comes heere
   Malc. My Countryman: but yet I know him not
   Macd. My euer gentle Cozen, welcome hither
   Malc. I know him now. Good God betimes remoue
   Macd. Stands Scotland where it did?
   Macd. Oh Relation; too nice, and yet too true
   Malc. What's the newest griefe?
   Macd. How do's my Wife?
   Macd. And all my Children?
   Macd. The Tyrant ha's not batter'd at their peace?
  Macd. Be not a niggard of your speech: How gos't?
   Malc. Bee't their comfort
   Macd. What concerne they,
   Macd. If it be mine
   Macd. Humh: I guesse at it
   Malc. Mercifull Heauen:
   Macd. My Children too?
   Macd. And I must be from thence? My wife kil'd too?
   Malc. Be comforted.
   Macd. He ha's no Children. All my pretty ones?
  Malc. Dispute it like a man
   Macd. I shall do so:
   Mal. Be this the Whetstone of your sword, let griefe
   Macd. O I could play the woman with mine eyes,
   Mal. This time goes manly:
More needs she the Diuine, then the Physitian:
My minde she ha's mated, and amaz'd my sight.
  Ment. The English powre is neere, led on by Malcolm,
   Ment. What do's the Tyrant
   Ment. Who then shall blame
Meet we the Med'cine of the sickly Weale,
Make we our March towards Birnan.
  Macb. Bring me no more Reports, let them flye all:
   Macb. Geese Villaine?
   Macb. Go pricke thy face, and ouer-red thy feare
   Macb. Take thy face hence. Seyton, I am sick at hart,
  Macb. What Newes more?
   Macb. Ile fight, till from my bones, my flesh be hackt.
   Macb. Ile put it on:
   Macb. Cure of that:
Must minister to himselfe
   Macb. Throw Physicke to the Dogs, Ile none of it.
Makes vs heare something
   Macb. Bring it after me:
Menteth, Cathnes, Angus, and Soldiers Marching.
  Malc. Cosins, I hope the dayes are neere at hand
   Ment. We doubt it nothing
  Ment. The wood of Birnane
   Malc. Let euery Souldier hew him downe a Bough,
   Malc. 'Tis his maine hope:
   Macd. Let our iust Censures
  Macb. Hang out our Banners on the outward walls,
   Macb. I haue almost forgot the taste of Feares:
   Macb. She should haue dy'de heereafter;
   Mes. Gracious my Lord,
   Macb. Well, say sir
   Mes. As I did stand my watch vpon the Hill
   Macb. Lyar, and Slaue
   Mes. Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so:
   Macb. If thou speak'st false,
  Mal. Now neere enough:
   Macd. Make all our Trumpets speak, giue the[m] all breath
  Macb. They haue tied me to a stake, I cannot flye,
  Macb. Thou'lt be affraid to heare it
   Macb. My name's Macbeth
More hatefull to mine eare
   Macb. No: nor more fearefull
  Macb. Thou was't borne of woman;
  Macd. That way the noise is: Tyrant shew thy face,
My Wife and Childrens Ghosts will haunt me still:
   Malc. We haue met with Foes
  Macb. Why should I play the Roman Foole, and dye
  Macd. Turne Hell-hound, turne
   Macb. Of all men else I haue auoyded thee:
   Macd. I haue no words,
My voice is in my Sword, thou bloodier Villaine
  Macb. Thou loosest labour
   Macd. Dispaire thy Charme,
   Macb. Accursed be that tongue that tels mee so;
   Macd. Then yeeld thee Coward,
   Macb. I will not yeeld
  Mal. I would the Friends we misse, were safe arriu'd
   Mal. Macduffe is missing, and your Noble Sonne
Must not be measur'd by his worth, for then
   Mal. Hee's worth more sorrow,
  Macd. Haile King, for so thou art.
  Mal. We shall not spend a large expence of time,
No sooner Iustice had, with Valour arm'd,
Norway himselfe, with terrible numbers,
Nor would we deigne him buriall of his men,
   2. Not so happy, yet much happyer
No more then to be Cawdor. Say from whence
Nothing afeard of what thy selfe didst make
Not pay thee
Nothing in his Life became him,
No lesse to haue done so: Let me enfold thee,
Not vnaccompanied, inuest him onely,
Nor Heauen peepe through the Blanket of the darke,
Not beare the knife my selfe. Besides, this Duncane
Not cast aside so soone
Nothing but Males. Will it not be receiu'd,
Nature seemes dead, and wicked Dreames abuse
Napkins enow about you, here you'le sweat for't.
New hatch'd toth' wofull time.
No mans Life was to be trusted with them
No Sonne of mine succeeding: if't be so,
Now goe to the Doore, and stay there till we call.
Now haue you consider'd of my speeches:
Now, if you haue a station in the file,
Not i'th' worst ranke of Manhood, say't,
Now spurres the lated Traueller apace,
No teeth for th' present. Get thee gone, to morrow
Now good digestion waite on Appetite,
Nose of Turke, and Tartars lips:
New Widdowes howle, new Orphans cry, new sorowes
No lesse in truth then life. My first false speaking
Now wee'l together, and the chance of goodnesse
Now is the time of helpe: your eye in Scotland
Not for their owne demerits, but for mine
Now minutely Reuolts vpbraid his Faith-breach:
Nothing in loue: Now do's he feele his Title
Of Kernes and Gallowgrosses is supply'd,
Or the Hare, the Lyon:
Or memorize another Golgotha,
Our Bosome interest: Goe pronounce his present death,
Of Noble hauing, and of Royall hope,
Or haue we eaten on the insane Root,
Onely to harrold thee into his sight,
Or did lyne the Rebell with hidden helpe,
Of the Imperiall Theame. I thanke you Gentlemen:
Our free Hearts each to other
Or not those in Commission yet return'd?
O worthyest Cousin,
Our eldest, Malcolme, whom we name hereafter,
On all deseruers. From hence to Envernes,
On which I must fall downe, or else o're-leape,
One of my fellowes had the speed of him;
Of direst Crueltie: make thick my blood,
Of our great quell
Of his owne Chamber, and vs'd their very Daggers,
Our will became the seruant to defect,
Or else worth all the rest: I see thee still;
Our knocking ha's awak'd him: here he comes
Of dyre Combustion, and confus'd Euents,
O Banquo, Banquo, Our Royall Master's murther'd
Out-run the pawser, Reason. Here lay Duncan,
Our Teares are not yet brew'd
Of Treasonous Mallice
Our seperated fortune shall keepe vs both the safer:
  Old man. Threescore and ten I can remember well,
  Old man. 'Tis vnnaturall,
   Old man. 'Tis said, they eate each other
   Old M. Gods benyson go with you, and with those
Of many Kings. If there come truth from them,
Our pleasure?
Our feares in Banquo sticke deepe,
Onely for them, and mine eternall Iewell
Our point of second meeting.
Of that darke houre: resolue your selues apart,
Of sorryest Fancies your Companions making,
Our Honors in these flattering streames,
Our Offices, and what we haue to doe,
Our Hostesse keepes her State, but in best time
Onely it spoyles the pleasure of the time
Or shew the glory of our Art?
Of the most Pious Edward, with such grace,
Of the rauin'd salt Sea sharke:
Open Lockes, who euer knockes.
Of Natures Germaine, tumble altogether,
Or from our Masters
Of Byrnan rise, and our high plac'd Macbeth
Our duties, did his welcome pay.
Our feares do make vs Traitors
Of goodly thousands. But for all this,
Or weare it on my Sword; yet my poore Country
Of horrid Hell, can come a Diuell more damn'd
Of your meere Owne. All these are portable,
Oftner vpon her knees, then on her feet,
Old Seyward with ten thousand warlike men
Of many worthy Fellowes, that were out,
Our lacke is nothing but our leaue. Macbeth
Oh, oh, oh
Of all the Gentry; there is Seywards Sonne,
Our setting downe befor't
Or else my Sword with an vnbattered edge
On mine owne sword? whiles I see liues, the gashes
Of this dead Butcher, and his Fiend-like Queene;
Point against Point, rebellious Arme 'gainst Arme,
Posters of the Sea and Land,
Peace, the Charme's wound vp.
Promis'd no lesse to them
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed Braine?
Pale Heccats Offrings: and wither'd Murther,
  Porter. Here's a knocking indeede: if a man were
Porter of Hell Gate, hee should haue old turning the
  Port. Faith Sir, we were carowsing till the second Cock:
  Port. Marry, Sir, Nose-painting, Sleepe, and Vrine.
   Port. That it did, Sir, i'the very Throat on me: but I
Put Rancours in the Vessell of my Peace
Past in probation with you:
Particular addition, from the Bill,
Performe what you command vs
Present him Eminence, both with Eye and Tongue:
Prepares for some attempt of Warre
   1 Powre in Sowes blood, that hath eaten
Poore Birds they are not set for:
Poure the sweet Milke of Concord, into Hell,
Put on with holy Prayers, and 'tis spoken
Pertaines to you alone
Put on their Instruments: Receiue what cheere you may,
Protest their first of Manhood
Plucke from the Memory a rooted Sorrow,
Profit againe should hardly draw me heere.
Painted vpon a pole, and vnder-writ,
Producing forth the cruell Ministers
Question enrages him: at once, goodnight.
Quarrels vniust against the Good and Loyall,
   Rosse. God saue the King
  Rosse. From Fiffe, great King,
   Rosse. That now Sweno, the Norwayes King,
   Rosse. Ile see it done
  Rosse. The King hath happily receiu'd, Macbeth,
   Rosse. And for an earnest of a greater Honor,
Retyre we to our Chamber:
Ring the Alarum Bell: Murther, and Treason,
   Rosse. Ha, good Father,
   Rosse. And Duncans Horses,
   Rosse. They did so:
  Ross. Is't known who did this more then bloody deed?
   Ross. Alas the day,
   Rosse. 'Gainst Nature still,
   Rosse. Where is Duncans body?
   Rosse. Will you to Scone?
   Rosse. Well, I will thither
   Rosse. Farewell, Father
Rather then so, come Fate into the Lyst,
Remaines in danger of her former Tooth.
   Rosse. His absence (Sir)
   Rosse. Gentlemen rise, his Highnesse is not well
   Rosse. What sights, my Lord?
Returning were as tedious as go ore:
   1 Round about the Caldron go:
Roote of Hemlocke, digg'd i'th' darke:
Rebellious dead, rise neuer till the Wood
Reigne in this Kingdome?
  Rosse. You must haue patience Madam
   Rosse. You know not
   Rosse. My deerest Cooz,
   Rosse. I am so much a Foole, should I stay longer
Run away I pray you.
   Rosse. Sir, Amen
  Rosse. Alas poore Countrey,
  Rosse. That of an houres age, doth hisse the speaker,
  Rosse. Why well
  Rosse. Well too
  Rosse. No, they were wel at peace, when I did leaue 'em
  Rosse. When I came hither to transport the Tydings
   Rosse. Would I could answer
  Rosse. No minde that's honest
   Rosse. Let not your eares dispise my tongue for euer,
   Rosse. Your Castle is surpriz'd: your Wife, and Babes
  Ro. Wife, Children, Seruants, all that could be found
  Rosse. I haue said
Remoue from her the meanes of all annoyance,
Reuenges burne in them: for their deere causes
Raze out the written troubles of the Braine,
Ring the Alarum Bell, blow Winde, come wracke,
Retreat, and Flourish. Enter with Drumme and Colours, Malcolm,
Rosse, Thanes, & Soldiers.
   Rosse. Your son my Lord, ha's paid a souldiers debt,
  Rosse. I, and brought off the field: your cause of sorrow
  Rosse. I, on the Front
Scena Secunda.
Say to the King, the knowledge of the Broyle,
Shew'd like a Rebells Whore: but all's too weake:
Shipwracking Stormes, and direfull Thunders:
So from that Spring, whence comfort seem'd to come,
So they doubly redoubled stroakes vpon the Foe:
So should he looke, that seemes to speake things strange
Scena Tertia.
   3. Sister, where thou?
Sleepe shall neyther Night nor Day
Shall he dwindle, peake, and pine:
   2. Shew me, shew me
So wither'd, and so wilde in their attyre,
Speake then to me, who neyther begge, nor feare
So all haile Macbeth, and Banquo
Stands not within the prospect of beleefe,
Speake, I charge you.
Strange Images of death, as thick as Tale
Shakes so my single state of Man,
Scena Quarta.
So humbly take my leaue
Scena Quinta.
Stop vp th' accesse, and passage to Remorse,
Shake my fell purpose, nor keepe peace betweene
Shall Sunne that Morrow see.
Scena Sexta.
Smells wooingly here: no Iutty frieze,
Still to returne your owne
Scena Septima.
Seruice ouer the Stage. Then enter Macbeth
Strong both against the Deed: Then, as his Host,
So cleere in his great Office, that his Vertues
Striding the blast, or Heauens Cherubin, hors'd
Shall blow the horrid deed in euery eye,
Such I account thy loue. Art thou affear'd
Soundly inuite him) his two Chamberlaines
Shall be a Fume, and the Receit of Reason
She strike vpon the Bell. Get thee to bed.
Scena Secunda.
Sleepe that knits vp the rauel'd Sleeue of Care,
Shall sleepe no more: Macbeth shall sleepe no more
So braine-sickly of things: Goe get some Water,
So poorely in your thoughts
Scena Tertia.
Strange Schreemes of Death,
Some say, the Earth was Feuorous,
See, and then speake your selues: awake, awake,
Shake off this Downey sleepe, Deaths counterfeit,
So were their Daggers, which vnwip'd, we found
Steep'd in the Colours of their Trade; their Daggers
Scena Quarta.
Suspition of the deed
Senit sounded. Enter Macbeth as King, Lady Lenox, Rosse, Lords,
Sirrha, a word with you: Attend those men
  Seruant. They are, my Lord, without the Pallace
Say, Thus did Banquo
Showghes, Water-Rugs, and Demy-Wolues are clipt
So wearie with Disasters, tugg'd with Fortune,
Scena Secunda.
  Seruant. I, Madame, but returnes againe to Night
   Seruant. Madame, I will.
Should be without regard: what's done, is done
Shee'le close, and be her selfe, whilest our poore Mallice
Skarfe vp the tender Eye of pittifull Day,
So prythee goe with me.
Scena Tertia.
So all men doe, from hence toth' Pallace Gate
   1. Stand too't
Scaena Quarta.
Shall be the Mawes of Kytes
Shall neuer tremble. Or be aliue againe,
Stand not vpon the order of your going,
Stones haue beene knowne to moue, & Trees to speake:
Stept in so farre, that should I wade no more,
Strange things I haue in head, that will to hand,
Scena Quinta.
Sawcy, and ouer-bold, how did you dare
Spightfull, and wrathfull, who (as others do)
Shall raise such Artificiall Sprights,
Shall draw him on to his Confusion.
Sits in Foggy cloud, and stayes for me.
Sing within. Come away, come away, &c.
Scaena Sexta.
Sweltred Venom sleeping got,
   3 Scale of Dragon, Tooth of Wolfe,
Sliuer'd in the Moones Ecclipse:
Something wicked this way comes:
   1 Speake
   1 Say, if th'hadst rather heare it from our mouthes,
Shall harme Macbeth.
Shall come against him.
Shall liue the Lease of Nature, pay his breath
  1 Shew
   2 Shew
   3 Shew
Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
Stand aye accursed in the Kalender.
Seize vpon Fife; giue to th' edge o'th' Sword
Scena Secunda.
So runnes against all reason
Shall not be long but Ile be heere againe:
  Son. As Birds do Mother
  Son. With what I get I meane, and so do they
   Son. Why should I Mother?
  Son. Nay how will you do for a Husband?
   Son. Then you'l by 'em to sell againe
   Son. Was my Father a Traitor, Mother?
   Son. What is a Traitor?
   Son. And be all Traitors, that do so
   Son. And must they all be hang'd, that swear and lye?
   Son. Who must hang them?
   Son. Then the Liars and Swearers are Fools: for there
  Son. If he were dead, youl'd weepe for him: if you
   Son. Thou ly'st thou shagge-ear'd Villaine
  Son. He ha's kill'd me Mother,
Scaena Tertia.
Strike heauen on the face, that it resounds
Shall haue more vices then it had before,
Sodaine, Malicious, smacking of euery sinne
Scotland hath Foysons, to fill vp your will
Since that the truest Issue of thy Throne
Scarsely haue coueted what was mine owne.
Such sanctity hath Heauen giuen his hand,
Sauagely slaughter'd: To relate the manner
Scena Secunda.
Soldiers.
Shall we well meet them, that way are they comming
Some say hee's mad: Others, that lesser hate him,
Scaena Tertia.
Shall ere haue power vpon thee. Then fly false Thanes,
Shall neuer sagge with doubt, nor shake with feare.
   Ser. There is ten thousand
  Ser. Souldiers Sir
  Ser. The English Force, so please you
Seyton?
  Sey. What's your gracious pleasure?
  Sey. All is confirm'd my Lord, which was reported
   Seyt. 'Tis not needed yet
Send out moe Horses, skirre the Country round,
Seyton, send out: Doctor, the Thanes flye from me:
Scena Quarta.
Seywards Sonne,
   Seyw. What wood is this before vs?
   Sold. It shall be done
   Syw. We learne no other, but the confident Tyrant
   Sey. The time approaches,
Scena Quinta.
  Sey. It is the cry of women, my good Lord
  Sey. The Queene (my Lord) is dead
Signifying nothing.
Scena Sexta.
Shall with my Cosin your right Noble Sonne
Shall take vpon's what else remaines to do,
   Sey. Fare you well:
Scena Septima.
Seemes bruited. Let me finde him Fortune,
  Sey. This way my Lord, the Castles gently rendred:
   Sey. Enter Sir, the Castle.
Seyward,
   Sey. Some must go off: and yet by these I see,
So great a day as this is cheapely bought
   Sey. Then he is dead?
   Sey. Had he his hurts before?
   Sey. Why then, Gods Soldier be he:
   Sey. He's worth no more,
So thankes to all at once, and to each one,
[The Tragedie of Macbeth by William Shakespeare 1603]
Thunder and Lightning. Enter three Witches.
   3. That will be ere the set of Sunne
   3. There to meet with Macbeth
The newest state
The multiplying Villanies of Nature
Till hee fac'd the Slaue:
Till he vnseam'd him from the Naue toth' Chops,
They smack of Honor both: Goe get him Surgeons.
The Thane of Cawdor, began a dismall Conflict,
Till that Bellona's Bridegroome, lapt in proofe,
The Victorie fell on vs
Till he disbursed, at Saint Colmes ynch,
Ten thousand Dollars, to our generall vse
Thunder. Enter the three Witches.
   1. Th'art kinde
Though his Barke cannot be lost,
Thus doe goe, about, about,
Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,
That looke not like th' Inhabitants o'th' Earth,
That man may question? you seeme to vnderstand me,
That you are so
Things that doe sound so faire? i'th' name of truth
That he seemes wrapt withall: to me you speake not.
   3. Thou shalt get Kings, though thou be none:
That takes the Reason Prisoner?
The newes of thy successe: and when he reades
Thy personall Venture in the Rebels sight,
Thy prayses in his Kingdomes great defence,
To giue thee from our Royall Master thanks,
The greatest is behinde. Thankes for your paines.
The Instruments of Darknesse tell vs Truths,
This supernaturall solliciting
That Function is smother'd in surmise,
Time, and the Houre, runs through the roughest Day
To reade them.
The Interim hauing weigh'd it, let vs speake
To throw away the dearest thing he ow'd,
To finde the Mindes construction in the Face.
The sinne of my Ingratitude euen now
That swiftest Wing of Recompence is slow,
To ouertake thee. Would thou hadst lesse deseru'd,
That the proportion both of thanks, and payment,
To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
That hast no lesse deseru'd, nor must be knowne
The Haruest is your owne
The Prince of Cumberland: which Honor must
The hearing of my Wife, with your approach:
The Eye winke at the Hand: yet let that bee,
To catch the neerest way. Thou would'st be great,
The illnesse should attend it. What thou would'st highly,
That would'st thou holily: would'st not play false,
Thould'st haue, great Glamys, that which cryes,
Thus thou must doe, if thou haue it;
Then wishest should be vndone. High thee hither,
That I may powre my Spirits in thine Eare,
To haue thee crown'd withall.
Then would make vp his Message
The Rauen himselfe is hoarse,
That croakes the fatall entrance of Duncan
That tend on mortall thoughts, vnsex me here,
That no compunctious visitings of Nature
Th' effect, and hit. Come to my Womans Brests,
That my keene Knife see not the Wound it makes,
To cry, hold, hold.
Thy Letters haue transported me beyond
This ignorant present, and I feele now
The future in the instant
This Nights great Businesse into my dispatch,
To alter fauor, euer is to feare:
The ayre nimbly and sweetly recommends it selfe
The Temple-haunting Barlet does approue,
The ayre is delicate.
The Loue that followes vs, sometime is our trouble,
To be his Purueyor: But he rides well,
To his home before vs: Faire and Noble Hostesse
To make their Audit at your Highnesse pleasure,
To plague th' Inuenter, this euen-handed Iustice
To our owne lips. Hee's heere in double trust;
The deepe damnation of his taking off:
That teares shall drowne the winde. I haue no Spurre
To pricke the sides of my intent, but onely
To be the same in thine owne Act, and Valour,
That made you breake this enterprize to me?
They haue made themselues, and that their fitnesse now
That Memorie, the Warder of the Braine,
Their drenched Natures lyes as in a Death,
Th' vnguarded Duncan? What not put vpon
That they haue don't?
There's Husbandry in Heauen,
Their Candles are all out: take thee that too.
That Nature giues way to in repose.
This Diamond he greetes your Wife withall,
To you they haue shew'd some truth
The Handle toward my Hand? Come, let me clutch thee:
To feeling, as to sight? or art thou but
Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going,
Thus to mine Eyes. Now o're the one halfe World
The Curtain'd sleepe: Witchcraft celebrates
Thy very stones prate of my where-about,
That summons thee to Heauen, or to Hell.
The fatall Bell-man, which giues the stern'st good-night.
That Death and Nature doe contend about them,
The death of each dayes Life, sore Labors Bath,
They must lye there: goe carry them, and smeare
The sleepie Groomes with blood
That feares a painted Deuill. If he doe bleed,
The multitudinous Seas incarnardine,
To weare a Heart so white.
'Twere best not know my selfe.
Taylor come hither, for stealing out of a French Hose:
That you doe lye so late?
This is the Doore
The obscure Bird clamor'd the liue-long Night.
Tongue nor Heart cannot conceiue, nor name thee
The Lords anoynted Temple, and stole thence
The Life o'th' Building
The great Doomes Image: Malcolme, Banquo,
To countenance this horror. Ring the Bell.
That such a hideous Trumpet calls to parley
The sleepers of the House? speake, speake
'Tis not for you to heare what I can speake:
The repetition in a Womans eare,
There's nothing serious in Mortalitie:
The Wine of Life is drawne, and the meere Lees
The Spring, the Head, the Fountaine of your Blood
Their Hands and Faces were all badg'd with blood,
That I did kill them
Th' expedition of my violent Loue
That had a heart to loue; and in that heart,
That most may clayme this argument for ours?
That suffer in exposure; let vs meet,
To know it further. Feares and scruples shake vs:
To shew an vnfelt Sorrow, is an Office
The neere in blood, the neerer bloody
Thou seest the Heauens, as troubled with mans Act,
Threatens his bloody Stage: byth' Clock 'tis Day,
That Darknesse does the face of Earth intombe,
Turn'd wilde in nature, broke their stalls, flong out,
To th' amazement of mine eyes that look'd vpon't.
Thriftlesse Ambition, that will rauen vp
Thine owne liues meanes: Then 'tis most like,
The Soueraignty will fall vpon Macbeth
To be inuested
The Sacred Store-house of his Predecessors,
That would make good of bad, and Friends of Foes.
Thou playd'st most fowly for't: yet it was saide
'Twixt this, and Supper. Goe not my Horse the better,
Their cruell Parricide, filling their hearers
Till seuen at Night, to make societie
The sweeter welcome:
To be thus, is nothing, but to be safely thus
To act in safetie. There is none but he,
They hayl'd him Father to a Line of Kings.
Thence to be wrencht with an vnlineall Hand,
To make them Kings, the Seedes of Banquo Kings.
This I made good to you, in our last conference,
The Instruments: who wrought with them:
To halfe a Soule, and to a Notion craz'd,
The House-keeper, the Hunter, euery one
That writes them all alike: and so of men.
To spight the World
That I would set my Life on any Chance,
To mend it, or be rid on't
That euery minute of his being, thrusts
That I to your assistance doe make loue,
The moment on't, for't must be done to Night,
That I require a clearenesse; and with him,
To leaue no Rubs nor Botches in the Worke:
Then is his Fathers, must embrace the fate
'Tis safer, to be that which we destroy,
Then by destruction dwell in doubtfull ioy.
That shake vs Nightly: Better be with the dead,
Then on the torture of the Minde to lye
Treason ha's done his worst: nor Steele, nor Poyson,
Thou know'st, that Banquo and his Fleans liues
Then be thou iocund: ere the Bat hath flowne
The shard-borne Beetle, with his drowsie hums,
There shall be done a deed of dreadfull note
Till thou applaud the deed: Come, seeling Night,
Thou maruell'st at my words: but hold thee still,
Things bad begun, make strong themselues by ill:
To the direction iust
   1. Then stand with vs:
The West yet glimmers with some streakes of Day.
To gayne the timely Inne, and neere approches
The subiect of our Watch
   2. Then 'tis hee:
The rest, that are within the note of expectation,
   3. 'Tis hee
Thou may'st reuenge. O Slaue!
  3. There's but one downe: the Sonne is fled
The Table round. There's blood vpon thy face
To sawcy doubts, and feares. But Banquo's safe?
The least a Death to Nature
There the growne Serpent lyes, the worme that's fled
That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a making:
'Tis giuen, with welcome: to feede were best at home:
Then pitty for Mischance
To grace vs with your Royall Company?
Thy goary lockes at me
The fit is momentary, vpon a thought
This is the very painting of your feare:
This is the Ayre-drawne-Dagger which you said
Those that we bury, backe; our Monuments
Too terrible for the eare. The times has bene,
That when the Braines were out, the man would dye,
Then such a murther is
To those that know me. Come, loue and health to all,
Then Ile sit downe: Giue me some Wine, fill full:
Thy bones are marrowlesse, thy blood is cold:
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
The arm'd Rhinoceros, or th' Hircan Tiger,
Take any shape but that, and my firme Nerues
The Baby of a Girle. Hence horrible shadow,
The secret'st man of Blood. What is the night?
There's not a one of them but in his house
Thunder. Enter the three Witches, meeting Hecat.
To Trade, and Trafficke with Macbeth,
The close contriuer of all harmes,
There hangs a vap'rous drop, profound,
Things haue bin strangely borne. The gracious Duncan
To kill their gracious Father? Damned Fact,
That were the Slaues of drinke, and thralles of sleepe?
To heare the men deny't. So that I say,
That had he Duncans Sonnes vnder his Key,
That the maleuolence of Fortune, nothing
Takes from his high respect. Thither Macduffe
To wake Northumberland, and warlike Seyward,
That by the helpe of these (with him aboue)
To ratifie the Worke) we may againe
The clowdy Messenger turnes me his backe,
That clogges me with this Answer
Thunder. Enter the three Witches.
  1 Thrice the brinded Cat hath mew'd
   2 Thrice, and once the Hedge-Pigge whin'd
Toad, that vnder cold stone,
Then the Charme is firme and good.
Though you vntye the Windes, and let them fight
Though bladed Corne be lodg'd, & Trees blown downe,
Though Castles topple on their Warders heads:
Though Pallaces, and Pyramids do slope
Their heads to their Foundations: Though the treasure
To what I aske you
Thy Selfe and Office deaftly show.
Thunder. 1. Apparation, an Armed Head.
Thou hast harp'd my feare aright. But one word more
Thunder. 2 Apparition, a Bloody Childe.
The powre of man: For none of woman borne
That I may tell pale-hearted Feare, it lies;
Thunder 3 Apparation, a Childe Crowned, with a Tree in his hand.
To time, and mortall Custome. Yet my Hart
Throbs to know one thing: Tell me, if your Art
Thy Crowne do's seare mine Eye-bals. And thy haire
Thou other Gold-bound-brow, is like the first:
That two-fold Balles, and trebble Scepters carry.
That this great King may kindly say,
The gallopping of Horse. Who was't came by?
The flighty purpose neuer is o're-tooke
The very firstlings of my heart shall be
The firstlings of my hand. And euen now
To Crown my thoughts with Acts: be it thoght & done:
The Castle of Macduff, I will surprize.
That trace him in his Line. No boasting like a Foole,
This deed Ile do, before this purpose coole,
(The most diminitiue of Birds) will fight,
The fits o'th' Season. I dare not speake much further,
Things at the worst will cease, or else climbe vpward,
To what they were before. My pretty Cosine,
Thou'dst neuer Feare the Net, nor Lime,
The Pitfall, nor the Gin
Though in your state of Honor I am perfect;
To fright you thus. Me thinkes I am too sauage:
To do worse to you, were fell Cruelty,
To say I haue done no harme?
This Tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
To offer vp a weake, poore innocent Lambe
T' appease an angry God
That which you are, my thoughts cannot transpose;
Though all things foule, would wear the brows of grace
Those precious Motiues, those strong knots of Loue,
The Title, is affear'd. Far thee well Lord,
There would be hands vplifted in my right:
That when they shall be open'd, blacke Macbeth
That ha's a name. But there's no bottome, none
The Cesterne of my Lust, and my Desire
That did oppose my will. Better Macbeth,
Then such an one to reigne
Th' vntimely emptying of the happy Throne,
To take vpon you what is yours: you may
That Vulture in you, to deuoure so many
To make me hunger more, that I should forge
Then Summer-seeming Lust: and it hath bin
The Sword of our slaine Kings: yet do not feare,
These Euils thou repeat'st vpon thy selfe,
Thy hope ends heere
To thy good Truth, and Honor. Diuellish Macbeth,
The taints, and blames I laide vpon my selfe,
The Deuill to his Fellow, and delight
'Tis hard to reconcile.
That stay his Cure: their malady conuinces
The great assay of Art. But at his touch,
They presently amend.
The meere dispaire of Surgery, he cures,
To the succeeding Royalty he leaues
The healing Benediction. With this strange vertue,
That speake him full of Grace.
The meanes that makes vs Strangers
To doffe their dire distresses
That Christendome giues out
This comfort with the like. But I haue words
That would be howl'd out in the desert ayre,
The generall cause, or is it a Fee-griefe
To adde the death of you
To cure this deadly greefe
That were most precious to me: Did heauen looke on,
They were all strooke for thee: Naught that I am,
The Night is long, that neuer findes the Day.
To their deafe pillowes will discharge their Secrets:
Those he commands, moue onely in command,
To giue Obedience, where 'tis truly ow'd:
To dew the Soueraigne Flower, and drowne the Weeds:
Till Byrnane wood remoue to Dunsinane,
The minde I sway by, and the heart I beare,
The diuell damne thee blacke, thou cream-fac'd Loone:
Thou Lilly-liuer'd Boy. What Soldiers, Patch?
That keepe her from her rest
The Water of my Land, finde her Disease,
That should applaud againe. Pull't off I say,
Till Birnane Forrest come to Dunsinane
That Chambers will be safe
The numbers of our Hoast, and make discouery
That will with due decision make vs know
Thoughts speculatiue, their vnsure hopes relate,
Towards which, aduance the warre.
The Cry is still, they come: our Castles strength
Till Famine and the Ague eate them vp:
The time ha's beene, my sences would haue cool'd
To heare a Night-shrieke, and my Fell of haire
There would haue beene a time for such a word:
To morrow, and to morrow, and to morrow,
To the last Syllable of Recorded time:
The way to dusty death. Out, out, breefe Candle,
That struts and frets his houre vpon the Stage,
Told by an Ideot, full of sound and fury
Thou com'st to vse thy Tongue: thy Story quickly
The Wood began to moue
Till Famine cling thee: If thy speech be sooth,
To doubt th' Equiuocation of the Fiend,
That lies like truth. Feare not, till Byrnane Wood
There is nor flying hence, nor tarrying here.
Those clamorous Harbingers of Blood, & Death.
That was not borne of Woman? Such a one
Then any is in hell
The Tyrants people, on both sides do fight,
The Noble Thanes do brauely in the Warre,
The day almost it selfe professes yours,
That strike beside vs
Then tearmes can giue thee out.
To one of woman borne
Tell thee, Macduffe was from his Mothers womb
That palter with vs in a double sence,
That keepe the word of promise to our eare,
To kisse the ground before young Malcolmes feet,
Though Byrnane wood be come to Dunsinane,
The which no sooner had his Prowesse confirm'd
They say he parted well, and paid his score,
Th' Vsurpers cursed head: the time is free:
That speake my salutation in their minds:
That fled the Snares of watchfull Tyranny,
Tooke off her life. This, and what need full else
That call's vpon vs, by the Grace of Grace,
  2. Vpon the Heath
Vpon her skinnie Lips: you should be Women,
Vpon this blasted Heath you stop our way
Vnder my Battlements. Come you Spirits,
Vnto our gentle sences
Vpon the sightlesse Curriors of the Ayre,
Vaulting Ambition, which ore-leapes it selfe,
Vpon his Death?
Vpon their Pillowes: they star'd, and were distracted,
Vnmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refraine,
Vpon the foot of Motion
Vpon my Head they plac'd a fruitlesse Crowne,
Vsing those Thoughts, which should indeed haue dy'd
Vnsafe the while, that wee must laue
Vnreall mock'ry hence. Why so, being gone
Vnto a dismall, and a Fatall end.
Vpon the Corner of the Moone
Vnder a hand accurs'd
Vnfixe his earth-bound Root? Sweet boadments, good:
Vnlesse the deed go with it. From this moment,
Vprore the vniuersall peace, confound
Vnspeake mine owne detraction. Heere abiure
Vnknowne to Woman, neuer was forsworne,
Vpon a dwarfish Theefe
Vpon the next Tree shall thou hang aliue
Vntimely ript
  1. When shall we three meet againe?
  2. When the Hurley-burley's done,
When the Battaile's lost, and wonne
   1. Where the place?
Who like a good and hardie Souldier fought
(Worthie to be a Rebell, for to that
Which smoak'd with bloody execution
Which neu'r shooke hands, nor bad farwell to him,
With furbusht Armes, and new supplyes of men,
Who comes here?
Where the Norweyan Banners flowt the Skie,
  1. Where hast thou beene, Sister?
Wearie Seu'nights, nine times nine,
Wrackt, as homeward he did come.
Which outwardly ye shew? My Noble Partner
With such Prophetique greeting?
Witches vanish.
Would they had stay'd
Which should be thine, or his: silenc'd with that,
Why doe you dresse me in borrowed Robes?
Which he deserues to loose.
Whether he was combin'd with those of Norway,
When those that gaue the Thane of Cawdor to me,
Winne vs with honest Trifles, to betray's
Whose horrid Image doth vnfixe my Heire,
Why Chance may Crowne me,
Without my stirre
Where euery day I turne the Leafe,
What hath chanc'd: and at more time,
Who did report, that very frankly hee
Was heauie on me. Thou art so farre before,
Wanton in fulnesse, seeke to hide themselues
We will establish our Estate vpon
Which the Eye feares, when it is done to see.
Whose care is gone before, to bid vs welcome:
Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came Missiues from
What thou art promis'd: yet doe I feare thy Nature,
Which Fate and Metaphysicall ayde doth seeme
What is your tidings?
Would haue inform'd for preparation
Who almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
Where-euer, in your sightlesse substances,
Which shall to all our Nights, and Dayes to come,
Where they must breed, and haunt: I haue obseru'd
Which still we thanke as Loue. Herein I teach you,
Were poore, and single Businesse, to contend
Wherewith your Maiestie loades our House:
We courst him at the heeles, and had a purpose
We are your guest to night
With his surcease, Successe: that but this blow
Wee'ld iumpe the life to come. But in these Cases,
We still haue iudgement heere, that we but teach
Who should against his Murtherer shut the doore,
Will pleade like Angels, Trumpet-tongu'd against
Which would be worne now in their newest glosse,
Wherein you drest your selfe? Hath it slept since?
Which thou esteem'st the Ornament of Life,
Who dares do more, is none
When you durst do it, then you were a man:
(Whereto the rather shall his dayes hard Iourney
Will I with Wine, and Wassell, so conuince,
What cannot you and I performe vpon
When we haue mark'd with blood those sleepie two
Which else should free haue wrought
We would spend it in some words vpon that Businesse,
When 'tis, it shall make Honor for you
Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
Whose howle's his Watch, thus with his stealthy pace,
With Tarquins rauishing sides, towards his designe
Which now sutes with it. Whiles I threat, he liues:
Words to the heat of deedes too cold breath giues.
What hath quench'd them, hath giuen me fire.
With Snores. I haue drugg'd their Possets,
Whether they liue, or dye.
When they did say God blesse vs
Why did you bring these Daggers from the place?
What Hands are here? hah: they pluck out mine Eyes.
Will all great Neptunes Ocean wash this blood
Wake Duncan with thy knocking:
Where we lay, our Chimneys were blowne downe,
With a new Gorgon. Doe not bid me speake:
Would murther as it fell.
What, in our House?
Where our Fate hid in an augure hole,
Which the false man do's easie.
Where we are, there's Daggers in mens smiles;
Which steales it selfe, when there's no mercie left.
Within the Volume of which Time, I haue seene
When liuing Light should kisse it?
Was by a Mowsing Owle hawkt at, and kill'd
What good could they pretend?
Why by the verities on thee made good,
(Which still hath been both graue, and prosperous)
With strange inuention. But of that to morrow,
When therewithall, we shall haue cause of State,
We will keepe our selfe till Supper time alone:
While then, God be with you.
Which would be fear'd. 'Tis much he dares,
Whose being I doe feare: and vnder him,
When first they put the Name of King vpon me,
Who's there?
Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
Which held you so vnder fortune,
Which you thought had been our innocent selfe.
Whose execution takes your Enemie off,
Who weare our Health but sickly in his Life,
Which in his Death were perfect
Whom the vile Blowes and Buffets of the World
With bare-fac'd power sweepe him from my sight,
Whose loues I may not drop, but wayle his fall,
Who I my selfe struck downe: and thence it is,
Within this houre, at most,
Whose absence is no lesse materiall to me,
Where our desire is got without content:
With them they thinke on: things without all remedie
Whom we, to gayne our peace, haue sent to peace,
Which keepes me pale. Light thickens,
Whiles Nights black Agents to their Prey's doe rowse.
  3. Who did strike out the Light?
  1. Was't not the way?
   2. We haue lost
   1. Well, let's away, and say how much is done.
We will require her welcome
Whole as the Marble, founded as the Rocke,
With twenty trenched gashes on his head;
Wee'l heare our selues againe.
Were the grac'd person of our Banquo present:
Who, may I rather challenge for vnkindnesse,
What is't that moues your Highnesse?
Which might appall the Diuell
Why do you make such faces? When all's done
Why what care I, if thou canst nod, speake too.
With twenty mortall murthers on their crownes,
Would he were heere: to all, and him we thirst,
Which thou dost glare with
Without our speciall wonder? You make me strange
When now I thinke you can behold such sights,
When mine is blanch'd with feare
Which must be acted, ere they may be scand
We are yet but yong indeed.
  1. Why how now Hecat, you looke angerly?
Was neuer call'd to beare my part,
Will come, to know his Destinie.
Which can interpret farther: Onely I say
Was pittied of Macbeth: marry he was dead:
Whom you may say (if't please you) Fleans kill'd,
Who cannot want the thought, how monstrous
Was not that Nobly done? I, and wisely too:
What 'twere to kill a Father: So should Fleans.
Where he bestowes himselfe?
Wooll of Bat, and Tongue of Dogge:
Witches Mummey, Maw, and Gulfe
What is't you do?
   3 Wee'l answer
What is this, that rises like the issue of a King,
Who chafes, who frets, or where Conspirers are:
Who can impresse the Forrest, bid the Tree
Why sinkes that Caldron? & what noise is this?
Why do you shew me this? - A fourth? Start eyes!
What will the Line stretch out to'th' cracke of Doome?
Which shewes me many more: and some I see,
While you performe your Antique round:
  Wife. What had he done, to make him fly the Land?
   Wife. He had none:
Whether it was his wisedome, or his feare
   Wife. Wisedom? to leaue his wife, to leaue his Babes,
   Wife. Father'd he is,
  Wife. Sirra, your Fathers dead,
   Wife. What with Wormes, and Flyes?
   Wife. Poore Bird,
   Wife. Yes, he is dead:
  Wife. Why I can buy me twenty at any Market
   Wife. Thou speak'st withall thy wit,
  Wife. I, that he was
  Wife. Why one that sweares, and lyes
   Wife. Euery one that do's so, is a Traitor,
  Wife. Euery one
  Wife. Why, the honest men
   Wife. Now God helpe thee, poore Monkie:
   Wife. Poore pratler, how thou talk'st?
Which is too nie your person. Heauen preserue you,
  Wife. Whether should I flye?
What are these faces?
  Wife. I hope in no place so vnsanctified,
Where such as thou may'st finde him
Weepe our sad bosomes empty
What know, beleeue; and what I can redresse,
What you haue spoke, it may be so perchance.
Was once thought honest: you haue lou'd him well,
Where I did finde my doubts.
Why in that rawnesse left you Wife, and Childe?
Without leaue-taking. I pray you,
What euer I shall thinke
When I shall treade vpon the Tyrants head,
Will seeme as pure as Snow, and the poore State
With my confinelesse harmes
We haue willing Dames enough: there cannot be
With other Graces weigh'd
With an vntitled Tyrant, bloody Sceptred,
When shalt thou see thy wholsome dayes againe?
Was a most Sainted-King: the Queene that bore thee,
Wip'd the blacke Scruples, reconcil'd my thoughts
Was this vpon my selfe. What I am truly
Whither indeed, before they heere approach
Which often since my heere remaine in England,
Where sighes, and groanes, and shrieks that rent the ayre
Which I haue heauily borne, there ran a Rumour
Which was to my beleefe witnest the rather,
Would create Soldiours, make our women fight,
We are comming thither: Gracious England hath
Where hearing should not latch them
Which shall possesse them with the heauiest sound
Were on the Quarry of these murther'd Deere
What man, ne're pull your hat vpon your browes:
Whispers the o're-fraught heart, and bids it breake
What, All my pretty Chickens, and their Damme
Within my Swords length set him, if he scape
What will these hands ne're be cleane? No more o'that
Would to the bleeding, and the grim Alarme
Within the belt of Rule
When all that is within him, do's condemne
Was he not borne of woman? The Spirits that know
Where got'st thou that Goose-looke
When I behold: Seyton, I say, this push
Will cheere me euer, or dis-eate me now.
Which the poore heart would faine deny, and dare not.
Which weighes vpon the heart?
What Rubarb, Cyme, or what Purgatiue drugge
Would scowre these English hence: hear'st y of them?
Whose hearts are absent too
What we shall say we haue, and what we owe:
Will laugh a Siedge to scorne: Heere let them lye,
Were they not forc'd with those that should be ours,
We might haue met them darefull, beard to beard,
Would at a dismall Treatise rowze, and stirre
Within this three Mile may you see it comming.
With blood of thine already
With thy keene Sword impresse, as make me bleed:
Wee'l haue thee, as our rarer Monsters are
Whose voyces I desire alowd with mine.
Which would be planted newly with the time,
Who (as 'tis thought) by selfe and violent hands,
We will performe in measure, time, and place:
Whom we inuite, to see vs Crown'd at Scone.
Yet it shall be Tempest-tost.
You greet with present Grace, and great prediction
Your fauors, nor your hate
You owe this strange Intelligence, or why
Your Highnesse part, is to receiue our Duties:
You wait on Natures Mischiefe. Come thick Night,
Your Face, my Thane, is as a Booke, where men
Your Hand, your Tongue: looke like th' innocent flower,
Yet when we can entreat an houre to serue,
You doe vnbend your Noble strength, to thinke
Yours for euer?
Yet hee's good that did the like for Fleans:
You do not giue the Cheere, the Feast is sold
You shall offend him, and extend his Passion,
You looke but on a stoole
Your Noble Friends do lacke you
Your Vessels, and your Spels prouide,
Your Charmes, and euery thing beside;
Yong fry of Treachery?
You may discerne of him through me, and wisedome
Yet Grace must still looke so
Your Matrons, and your Maides, could not fill vp
You haue knowne what you should not
Your leauy Skreenes throw downe,
  Y.Sey. What is thy name?
   Y.Sey. No: though thou call'st thy selfe a hoter name
   Y.Sey. The diuell himselfe could not pronounce a Title
   Y.Sey. Thou lyest abhorred Tyrant, with my Sword
Yet I will try the last. Before my body,
attendants,
and
and it takes him off; it perswades him, and dis-heartens
and
are Lyars and Swearers enow, to beate the honest men,
and hang vp them
actuall performances, what (at any time) haue you heard
a Souldier, and affear'd? what need we feare? who knowes
and that Ile spend for him
before, these weyward Sisters saluted me, and referr'd me to
by being ignorant of what Greatnesse is promis'd thee. Lay
blood in him
dyed holily in their beds
done, cannot be vndone. To bed, to bed, to bed.
enough for Gods sake, yet could not equiuocate to Heauen:
equiuocates him in a sleepe, and giuing him the Lye,
further, they made themselues Ayre, into which they vanish'd.
for him, though he tooke vp my Legges sometime, yet I
from her, to satisfie my remembrance the more strongly
for the dignity of the whole body
goe the Primrose way to th' euerlasting Bonfire.
haue I thought good to deliuer thee (my dearest Partner of
himselfe on th' expectation of Plentie: Come in time, haue
him; makes him stand too, and not stand too: in conclusion,
haue a new Father
her, vnlocke her Closset, take foorth paper, folde it,
her say?
he cannot come out on's graue
it to thy heart and farewell.
i'th' name of Belzebub? Here's a Farmer, that hang'd
it makes him, and it marres him; it sets him on,
it, when none can call our powre to accompt: yet who
knowne those which haue walkt in their sleep, who haue
learn'd by the perfect'st report, they haue more in them, then
leaues him
looke not so pale: I tell you yet againe Banquo's buried;
meeting a bleeding Captaine.
mortall knowledge. When I burnt in desire to question them
much Drinke may be said to be an Equiuocator with Lecherie:
made a Shift to cast him.
my life fast asleepe: obserue her, stand close
my Lord, no more o'that: you marre all with this starting
oh come in, Equiuocator.
once the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of watching.
of that: Heauen knowes what she ha's knowne
of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand.
place is too cold for Hell. Ile Deuill-Porter it no further:
prouoke?
perceiue no truth in your report. When was it shee last
requited him for his Lye, and (I thinke) being too strong
seruice.
stickes deeper: growes with more pernicious roote
seene her rise from her bed, throw her Night-Gown vppon
the King, who all-hail'd me Thane of Cawdor, by which Title
the comming on of time, with haile King that shalt be. This
the Scales against eyther Scale, who committed Treason
the desire, but it takes away the performance. Therefore
that euer yet they heard
to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleepe
to confirme my speech.
'tis her command
thus washing her hands: I haue knowne her continue in
this a quarter of an houre
then 'tis time to doo't: Hell is murky. Fye, my Lord, fie,
their Army,
would not, it were a good signe, that I should quickely
walk'd?
write vpon't, read it, afterwards Seale it, and againe returne
would haue thought the olde man to haue had so much
with Boughes.
